[graphic][subsumed]
[graphic]
[ocr errors]

HARPER'S LIFE INSURANCE LIBRARY

Selling Life Insurance
John Alford Stevenson

The Psychology Of Selling Life Insurance
E. K. Strong, Jr.

Meeting Objections
John Alford Stevenson

The House Of Protection
Griffin M. Lovelace

Analyzing Life Situations For Insurance Needs
Griffin M. Lovelace

Life Underwriting As A Career
Edward A. Woods

Inheritance Taxation
Leon G. Simon

Life Insurance Fundamentals
Griffin M. Lovelace

HARPER'S LIFE INSURANCE LIBRARY

Edited by

John Alford Stevenson and Oriffin M. Lovelace

ANALYZING LIFE SITUATIONS
FOR INSURANCE NEEDS

THE CASE METHOD

BY

GRIFFIN M. LOVELACE

Formerly

DIRECTOR Or THE LIFE INSURANCE TRAINING COURSE AND
PROFESSOR OF LIFE INSURANCE, SCHOOL OF COMMERCE,
ACCOUNTS AND FINANCE, NEW YORK UNIVERSITY

Endorsed by
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
LIFE UNDERWRITERS
LIFE UNDERWRITERS ASSOCIATION
OF CANADA

[graphic][merged small]

ANALYZING LIFE SITUATIONS
FOR INSURANCE NEEDS

Copyright, 1922
By Harper & Brothers
Printed in the U.S.A.

To

Walteb Van Dyke Bingham

Director of the Division of Co-operative Research at the Carnegie Institute of
Technology, whose enthusiasm for vocational training and vision of great
possibilities in life insurance education were largely responsible for the
organization of the Carnegie School of Life Insurance Salesmanship.

CONTENTS

PAGE

Preface ix

Past I

Chapter Our Interest in Needs

I. The Target Of Interest 1

II. The Value Op Selling Through Needs. ... 7

III. The Prospect^ "picture" 20

IV. Gathering Information 32

Part II

Case Analysis

V. Case Analysis 47

VI. The John Browns—A Thriftless Family . . . 54

VII. The Paul Millers—A Thrifty Family. ... 74

VIII. Peter Dale—An Average Case 94

IX. A Young Chemist, Who Has No Dependents . 104

X. Richard Diggs—A Progressive Manufacturer 116

XI. John P. Drew—Head Of A Large Family Who

Has Saved And Lost Considerable Money 142

Part III

Talking Needs

XII. Talking Needs 177

XIII. To Pay Final And Living Expenses .... 180

XIV. A Place To Live 194

XV. An Education 197

XVI. To Lift The Mortgage 206

XVII. The Needs Of A Young Man 209

XVIII. Confidence Of The Buyer 218

PREFACE

Three years ago the author adopted the case method of studying the needs of
prospects in his first classes at Carnegie Tech, and from the very beginning
students showed a deep interest in it. Results have proven that this method
possesses practical value.

During the past year a widespread interest has been developed in analyzing
individual situations to discover "life insurance needs." At the international
conventions of Life Underwriters, held in Cleveland in 1921 and Toronto in
1922, and at several sales congresses, the programs have contained specimen
cases for analysis. Life Association News now carries a regular department for
this purpose under the heading, "The Life Insurance Clinic."

The aim of this book is threefold: (1) to emphasize the fact that human beings
will be interested in a commodity or service if they can be made to feel that
they need it for specific purposes; (2) to illustrate how we may analyze
individual situations to discover needs and prescribe for them; and (3) to give
a few examples of what is meant by "talking needs" instead of "talking
policies."

The average person has far less life insurance than his situation requires.
Perhaps one of the reasons for this condition is that clients don't realize
just what their life insurance needs are; and it is, no doubt, within the truth
to add that the average life underwriter does not give as much help in this
direction as he should. Few persons are financially able to carry enough life
insurance to supply completely all their needs; but this is no reason why we
should fail to point out to clients their urgent specific needs and give them
an opportunity to plan their life insurance intelligently.

In solving any problem, the difficulty itself must first be clearly understood;
then various ways of overcoming it are considered; and, finally, the best
solution is selected and applied. The same process should be used in life
insurance practice. The individual's situation should be analyzed to show
clearly the problems soluble by means of life insurance^—i. e., to discover his
life insurance needs. The best life insurance solution should then be worked
out and applied. In medical terms, the case must first be diagnosed by a study
of symptoms to find out just what the trouble is; then a remedy is prescribed
and treatment is given.

It is a pleasure to acknowledge the help PREFACE

and inspiration which the author has received from his students at Carnegie
Tech and, particularly, from his friend John A. • Stevenson, whose advice has
been invaluable. Grateful acknowledgment is also made to Edward A. Woods, who
read the entire manuscript and made very helpful suggestions.

G. M. L.

New York University,

New Yoek,
October 2,1922.

with a million roubles of Russian money (in 1922) your interest would hardly
extend beyond curiosity. You would attach relatively little importance, or
value, to roubles. But, if you were offered $5,000 of United States money, you
would be delighted. The Russian money would have too little buying power to
cause you any excitement. It would not represent, to any great extent, food you
could eat, clothes you could wear, an automobile in which you could ride for
pleasure or economy of time. But, $5,000! At once you would think of the things
you need that you could buy with $5,000, of the things you want to do—the
liquidation of a debt, a trip around the world, a fine automobile, a year of
study in Europe, a little home in the country. Five thousand dollars would
start your imagination working. You might even think of adding the money to
your savings account, so that you could buy things you would need in the
future.

There is quite a difference between various kinds of money; e. g., roubles and
dollars. Yet the difference is not so much in the money itself, as in what the
money will buy. If dollars wouldn't purchase any more than roubles will buy at
the present time, we shouldn't be much interested in dollars, either.

Money is only a means to various ends. Whenever we think of money, our
imaginations jump to the things we desire and which money will buy. There lies
our interest. Suppose you owned a city home and a summer home both tax free;
that the state would keep them in repair for you, that you had a perpetual
right to receive without cost all the food, clothing, books, automobiles, and
services you needed of all kinds; that anything you required for your health,
comfort and happiness would be furnished you at any time free of charge: would
you care even about dollars? Of course not. Piles of money would give you no
satisfaction, if you had everything you needed or if you could not buy with it
the things you need and desire.

THE PURPOSE OF LIFE INSURANCE

What is the purpose of life insurance? To provide money in certain
contingencies.

What is the reason for providing money through life insurance, against certain
contingencies? To enable someone to buy commodities or services that will be
needed. Of the three items, the most important is the things that will be
needed. Life insurance and money are important only as means to a desired end.

Then why should we spend so much of our time talking about life insurance and
money first, instead of talking about the ultimate purpose for which life
insurance and money exist?

Life insurance provides money, and money provides commodities and services
which contribute to our health, our safety, our comfort and our happiness.

THE TARGET OF INTEREST

It is obvious, even to anyone who has never shot a rifle or a revolver, that
the highest degree of marksmanship skill would be represented by a shot in the
bull's-eye of a target. The person whose shot would hit in the first circle
would be an excellent shot, but not so good as the man who hit in the
bull's-eye. The shot which struck on the next circle, or near it, would not be
a very good one; yet it would be on the target. Some people are such poor shots
that they would miss the target altogether.

Let us think of this target as being a "target of interest." The life insurance
solicitor must aim for his prospect's chief interest. He should always shoot at
the bull's-eye of interest.

[graphic]

THE TARGET OF LIFE INSURANCE INTEREST

Thing* that vwirt be needed

Money to buy with

Life Insurance to

furnish the money

The solicitor who wants to hit the bull'seye, will first talk to the prospect
about the things which he or his family will need. The money to buy the things
that will be needed is next in degree of interest. The agent who constantly
talks about life insurance policies before pointing out the things for which
money will be needed is hitting on the outer edge of interest, and so long as
he keeps shooting so far from the bull's-eye, he can't expect to make the best
possible score.

Our needs are the chief source of our interest in considering any commodity or
service offered for sale. The surest means of arousing our interest is to talk
about our needs, to make us realize them more keenly, to show us finally that
the commodity or service offered will fill our needs, give us better health, or
greater safety, comfort or happiness.

[ocr errors]

THE VALUE OF SELLING THROUGH NEEDS

THE purpose of this book could not be better illustrated than by the following
interesting experience related by Mr. William H. Jones, who practices life
insurance in a country district of Maryland:

"The other day I heard that Mr. A, who is a tenant on a large farm, had his
business affairs very much tangled up, and I went out to show him how an
insurance contract would put him on his feet. When I drove up, his wife
inquired if I wanted to sell him insurance; she informed me that he did not
want any, and furthermore could not pay for it if he wanted it, stating that
she did not think much of insurance anyway. I explained to her that I was there
to sell her a friend, and outlined what it would do. She asked me to see her
husband if it would do what I claimed.

"I then saw Mr. A and told him what his wife had said in regard to his
financial condition. He acknowledged this, and I told him that I was there to
help him get his affairs straightened out. He then told me that he owed one man
a note of $1,175, about $1,500 to a bank that was going to

push him, and about $300 scattered around. The $1,175 note was further
protected by a bill of sale for $1,200, and this same party was going to demand
another bill of sale of his wheat as soon as it was out of the ground, and
would not advance any more money either. Because of these bills of sale it was
impossible for him to get further credit, and his creditors were getting ready
to sell him out.

"I told him that I could put his affairs in order, have all his debts at one
bank and have the bills of sale lifted through an insurance policy, if he could
get it. He consented to be examined and to take the insurance if I could do for
him what I claimed. The policy came through, and I went to the bank, his
heaviest creditor, explained the condition of his affairs, and stated that he
was willing to take out $5,000 of insurance and assign $3,500 to the bank for a
loan of that amount. His brother, who was the endorser on all his papers,
endorsed for him, and he borrowed $3,500. This protected everybody, including
Mr. A's family, in case of his death. I had the bill of sale lifted, and now
Mr. A has plain sailing, because he is protected in case of death or disability
and has sufficient stock and implements to pay off his indebtedness three times
over. There won't be anybody to sell him out now, and he thanked me heartily
for helping him. I told him to thank the insurance policy."

Life underwriters of long experience will recognize in the above story a
striking example of presenting life insurance strictly from the point of view
of the client; even beginners can see that Mr. Jones' whole attitude was one of
service. No physician ever displayed a more conscientious purpose in treating a
patient than Mr. Jones showed in helping his farmer client.

There are other ways of selling than the one employed in this case. No doubt
all of you who read these pages have known persons who would probably have
addressed the Maryland farmer somewhat as follows:

"Mr. Vesey, I represent the Hearth and Home Life Insurance Company, one of the
great life insurance companies of America, and I have come to show you a new
policy which our company has put out. It contains all the good features of
other companies' contracts and some that are new and exclusive. In fact, this
is a special policy. It is called 'The Unique Policy' and will do the following
things for you. (Here the agent enumerates the main features of his policy.) In
addition to these splendid advantages, the policy provides for cash values
(which the agent explains and illustrates), extended insurance, paid-up
insurance, etc. The policy is incontestable after two years, etc., etc., etc.
At your age you can carry $10,000 on this new special plan for only $285.29."

This type of selling consists in talking the "policy points" and the "rates and
values." It is the same method employed by the average commodity salesman, who
goes from door to door, telling over and over again the good points of his
commodity. Millions of dollars of life insurance have been sold in this way,
and much good has been accomplished. But millions have remained unsold, though
there was great need for them, because, as a rule, prospects have not been
deeply interested in that kind of presentation. And there is nothing
professional in such methods. There is no similarity between the methods of the
physician and the methods of the man who sells commodities or life insurance
service in this way. But even a casual observer can note that there is a great
resemblance between the methods used in Mr. Jones' talk with the farmer and the
methods of a conscientious physician.

DIAGNOSIS

When a physician is called in to treat a case, he does not get out a box of
favorite pills and say to his patient: "I am glad you called me, for I have
here a box of the finest pills made in the United States. They are manufactured
by one of the leading pharmaceutical companies and we call them the 'Universal
Pill.' They will cure almost anything, and you are very lucky to have a chance
to buy them." The physician sets down his little black bag when he enters his
patient's room and for a time forgets all about it. He doesn't think of
medicines at all. He isn't pondering any theories he learned in the medical
school. His mind is concentrated on his patient's trouble. What is the matter
with the patient? What symptoms does he show? What is the diagnosis of his
case? Or, to express the idea in simple language,what does the patient need?

ETHICAL PRACTICE IS SERVICE

And the doctor proceeds to discover what is his patient's trouble, counts his
pulse, puts a thermometer under his tongue to take his temperature, searches
his face for tell-tale signs, and asks many questions. Once the doctor makes up
his mind what the trouble is, he remembers his little black bag, turns to it
and selects the proper medicine; or he writes a prescription, to be filled at
the drug store. The remedy is the last thing he considers. His first step is
diagnosis—finding out what the patient's trouble is, what are his physical
needs.

All truly professional men follow the same procedure. So do many men engaged in
business; for it is possible to be "professional" even in business. The
professional attitude is that of service. Not all members of the so-called
professions—medicine and law, for example—are truly professional in their
practice. We use the words "quack" and "shyster" to designate the despicable
type of physician and lawyer whose methods are commercial rather than
service-rendering.

SERVICE IS SERVING NEEDS

Service really means "serving needs." When a person is in need of something
without which he cannot be well, safe, comfortable, or happy, whoever furnishes
that which will satisfy the need renders service. The man or woman who, in
practicing his vocation, takes "service" as his guiding principle is performing
a professional duty to his clients; and we may say that his attitude is
ethical. It is quite obvious that providing for the needs of the life insurance
client constitutes ethical life-underwriting practice.

No doubt the story of the farmer who was told to "thank the life insurance
policy"

would leave as its deepest impression the thought that the case was a striking
example of ethical life-underwriting practice—goldenrule salesmanship.

Yet it is not the purpose of this book to develop the ethical aspect of
"serving needs." The desirability of golden-rule salesmanship in life insurance
is so obvious that the limited scope of this book will not permit us to discuss
the subject further than to emphasize these two points: (1) that, unless the
client gets the kind of policy, the kind of settlement, and, as nearly as
possible, the amount of insurance his beneficiaries will require, he has not
been well served and has not truly had his money's worth; and (2) that, if the
underwriter neglects to consider carefully the specific purposes for which
beneficiaries will require money after the client's death, women and children
may suffer as the result of his inefficiency.

WHAT IS THERE IN IT FOR THE AGENT?

"But what is there in it for the life insurance agent?" someone may ask. "The
prospect's interests are served; but does the salesman benefit in any way from
the effort he makes to diagnose the prospect's needs and prescribe for them? It
takes time to conduct each sale as a separate and individual case, and time is
money. It is much easier just to learn the valuable points of each policy and
then to talk the most attractive policy or, perhaps, to offer the prospect the
policy which seems best to fit his case and explain it fully."

It does, indeed, take time and effort to handle each case in an individual
manner. But this does not necessarily mean that it is harder to sell insurance
in this way. Indeed, it is quite possible that we may find it easier to sell a
proper amount of insurance by discovering the prospect's needs and drawing up a
program that fits his case. At any rate, let us consider the matter from this
point of view.

Suppose William H. Jones had simply made a "policy talk" to his farmer
prospect. Would his task have been made easier? He would have told the farmer
about the strong points of his policy, outlining what each provision would do
for him—insurance to pay off the mortgage, if he died, or to provide a certain
income for his wife; cash values, which would enable him to borrow money after
a few years; extended or paidup insurance in case the policy was allowed to
lapse after it had a cash value; the premium loan privilege, which would
automatically continue the policy in force; and many other excellent privileges
found in the average policy contract. He might also have dwelt on the
satisfaction the farmer would derive from cashing in his policy for a
substantial amount at age sixty-five, and showed the benefits of the total and
permanent disability provisions.

Would the farmer have been more interested than he was in the conversation that
actually took place? Really, it is hard to believe that he would have been
interested at all; for during the whole policy-story, he would have been
waiting for the agent to finish in order to explain that he didn't have the
money to buy any insurance, no matter how good it might be; that he was head
over heels in debt and wanted to get money, not spend it. It seems quite clear
that any other method than the one employed by Mr. Jones would have resulted in
utter failure. The farmer's problem was to pay off his debts— to secure money
for this purpose. The "policy talk" would have impressed him largely as an
attempt to induce him to pay out money, the one thing above all others that he
was not in a position to do. Unless the agent could have hypnotized his
prospect, there was hardly any chance that an application would be signed; and,
if a policy had been issued, it is quite probable that the policy would have
been returned to the Home Office with the sad legend "not taken."

It is interesting to consider, also, what would have been the attitude of the
average life insurance representative who, having this farmer's name on his
prospect list, might have learned, before making a call, the facts concerning
the farmer's financial situation. Isn't it probable that the agent would never
have gone to see the farmer? The agent would have reasoned thus: "This poor man
hasn't any money and is badly in debt. He will probably be sold out; and if I
wrote him a policy, perhaps I never would get my money. So I'll just scratch
his name off my list."

There is no doubt but that Mr. Jones used the only method by which this
particular prospect could have been induced to sign the application, make his
premium deposit, and continue to be a satisfied policyholder— indeed, a happy
one.

IS THIS METHOD SCIENTIFICALLY SOUND?

These thoughts suggest two questions: (1) Is it not quite likely that many
agents fail because they are constantly making just the kind of mistakes that
Mr. Jones avoided? (2) What is the principle underlying the methods employed by
Mr. Jones, and have we any scientific authority for believing that the
principle is correct?

The answer to the first question cannot be stated with assurance until we have
answered the second one. If an analysis of Mr. Jones' methods reveals an
underlying principle which is found to be scientifically correct, then we may
at once conclude that many salesmen who do not pursue these methods are making
costly mistakes which can be avoided.

Note well the first statement from the account of the interview with the
Maryland farmer! "The other day I heard that Mr. A, who is a tenant on a large
farm, had his business affairs very much tangled up, and I went out to show him
how an insurance contract would put him on his feet." The farmer was in need of
help. Was his trouble of such a nature that life insurance would help him? The
principle on which Mr. Jones acted when he made up his mind to call on this
farmer may be stated as follows: Human beings have certain needs which give
rise to financial problems. Some of these problems may be solved, partially or
wholly, by the use of life insurance.

USING NEEDS TO GET INTEREST AND ACTION

How will the application of this principle help the life insurance agent to
accomplish the two most important things to be done

in an interview, viz., (1) to secure the prospect's interest and develop it
until he really desires the service which is offered, and (2) to cause the
prospect to take favorable action—or, as we commonly express it, to "close the
case"?

When a person is hungry, in what can he be most easily interested: in books,
jewelry, clothes, or food? When a man is very cold, in which of the following
things will he probably be most interested: an automobile, an inkstand, a pair
of scissors, or an overcoat? If a man who couldn't swim fell overboard in the
middle of a deep stream, which would he desire most: a meerschaum pipe, a bag
of gold dollars, a Rembrandt painting, or a large piece of driftwood? If a
father of four children knew he was going to die to-morrow, for which would he
be willing to spend the most money: shares of oil stock, a ticket to Europe, a
life membership in the leading club or a life insurance policy?

It makes no difference what situation you examine, you will find that our
interest will always be centered on the things we feel will satisfy our needs
or solve our problems.

Will the realization of a need assist in "closing"? Consult your own experience
and your own tendencies. What usually happens when you feel that you need
something? (1) Don't you find that you begin to desire the thing which you
think you need?

(2) Don't you begin to think about securing that "thing"—commodity, service or
experience? (3) If you continue to feel that you need and desire the particular
"thing" under consideration, don't you begin to think about how you may secure
it? (4) Don't you finally try to secure it, or, if not, is it not because you
have decided that you "can't afford it"; i. e., that there are other things you
need and desire more, and that your means or your time or your strength will
not permit you to secure all you need and desire?

There is no doubt but that your answer to these few questions will be "yes,"
for all human beings are alike in possessing the tendency to act in just the
way described. Your prospect's answer to these questions would also be "yes,"
and you will find upon experiment that an analysis and discussion of his needs 
will interest him far more than a discussion of your policy features; and that
if you can succeed in making him feel that he greatly needs what your service
will do for him, he will be inclined to secure it. Ill

THE PROSPECT'S "PICTURE"

HOW can we discover an individual's needs which may be satisfied through life
insurance? Many of them seem obvious to us; but if we stop to consider any
individual case, we shall see that we really find needs by analyzing
information about the prospect. For example: An agent asks a prospect whether
he is married, because he knows that a married man has needs to be filled by
life insurance which the unmarried man has not. If the prospect is married, the
next question is, "Have you any children?" Children's future needs require the
protection of life insurance in particular ways. If the prospect says he is not
married, the agent probably asks if there are any dependents—mother, sister, or
younger brother—for if there is a dependent, the prospect has needs which will
require more life insurance than would be required if there were no one
dependent on him.

There are many other questions which we may ask to advantage. Is there a
mortgage on the home? What are the prospect's total annual taxes (federal
income and local)? What is the estimated net estate which the prospect would
leave if he should die now, and where is his property located? What are his
plans for his son and daughter? What kind of an education does he wish them to
have? What amount of money does he ordinarily owe at the bank, or what is the
maximum amount of money he may owe to banks or trade creditors at any one time?
These and many other questions will help us to determine the amount of money
that will be required after the prospect's death. Of course, there are many
questions which cannot be asked until the agent has won his prospect's
confidence.

NEEDS VARY WITH DIFFERENT PEOPLE

Needs vary greatly with different individuals. Persons situated similarly will
have much the same needs. Two married men earning about the same salary, having
each two children, and having approximately the same amount of money saved up
may require about the same insurance protection. Yet this is not certain. If
their children are both boys or both girls of about the same ages, the needs of
the two families may be the same. Suppose, however, that Mr. A has a boy
eighteen and a girl ten years old, while Mr. B's son and daughter are five and
three years old, respectively. The needs of Mr. B's family for money after his
death will probably be greater than the needs of Mr. A's family after Mr. A's
death, because B's children are younger than A's. No doubt A's son has finished
high school or is at least in his fourth year at high school, whereas B's boy
is only five years old. If B should die this year, it would be thirteen or
fourteen years before his son would complete his high-school course. A's
daughter will require about eight years more before finishing high school,
while it will take B's daughter fifteen years more to finish. If both A and B
should die now, it would take more money to support and educate B's children
than would be required for A's. We might find that A has a large mortgage on
his home and owes money to his bank secured by $20,000 of bonds, and that B has
no such obligations. This additional information might reveal that, after all,
A had greater life insurance requirements than B.

Although A and B seem at first to be in quite similar situations, each having
the same income, the same number of children and about the same amount of
savings, their needs demanding life insurance are different because of the
difference in the number of years' income necessary to give their children

a fair start in life. Also, if they wish their children to have a college
education, still more money will be needed, if A and B die prematurely, than
would be the case if they considered a college education unnecessary.

These illustrations show us, first, that needs vary with different individuals,
and that the needs may be discovered only by securing and studying various
details of information about the prospect's situation. We should learn all we
can about the prospect's family, his business, his financial situation. No
detail of information which we obtain should be discarded. We should consider
every item as forming a part of the total group of facts which pictures the
prospect's life. Suppose that Mr. C has a wife and three children and carries a
large amount of insurance, sufficient, it seems, to provide an income for his
wife and children, educational funds for the children, cash payments to
liquidate debts, taxes and other obligations. The agent may not see that Mr. C
requires any more life insurance. But suppose he asks Mr. C, "Have you any
dependent outside of your immediate family," and that Mr. C says, "Yes, I am
sending my niece to school. She is a senior in the high school." And suppose
the agent asks, "Will she go to college?" and that Mr. C says, "Yes." The agent
has uncovered a new need for which life insurance will be required; viz., to
furnish money for the niece's education, if her uncle dies before she finishes
college.

Again, suppose Mr. C has secured what seems to be a sufficient amount of life
insurance to provide for the living expenses and educational needs of his
children, and the agent says, "Mr. C, there is something I feel I ought to ask
you in the interest of your family. If a man dies leaving securities on deposit
at his bank as collateral for a loan, it is, of course, obvious that the bank
will be entitled to reimbursement for its loan by sale of the collateral,
unless there is cash in the estate sufficient to release the securities. Most
business men frequently have loans outstanding against collateral, and I was
wondering if this isn't often true in your case. If Mr. C says he owes now, or
sometimes owes, money secured in this way, the agent has discovered a new need
requiring the aid of life insurance to furnish cash at C's death, in order that
his family may be in a position to release collateral securities.

These examples illustrate the ease with which the agent may discover needs
requiring the use of life insurance, if he can obtain information regarding the
prospect's situation. It may not always be easy to obtain complete details in a
given case, but such information is so important that the life insurance
salesman should be constantly on the alert to secure data about the personal,
family, business and financial situation of his prospects.

THE PICTURE

A few years ago the writer adopted the word "picture" to indicate the
collective information obtained by the life underwriter regarding a prospect.
The word has come into general use among the graduates of Carnegie Tech and
will be used in the books published in the Harper's Life Insurance Library.

A real picture, a photograph or a painting, shows us what kind of person one is
physically. The "prospect's picture" gives us a good idea of what kind of man
the prospect is in terms of his interests, activities and responsibilities. For
example, if a friend wished to give you a good idea of some person he wanted
you to meet, he might show you a photograph so that you could see his physical
features, but in order that you might understand what manner of man he was in
other respects, your friend would tell you about this person's interests,
responsibilities, talents, abilities, his family relationships, and his
business, perhaps even his hobbies. If your friend says, "This man is forty
years old, married and has two small children, is owner of a knitting mill,
earns $25,000 a year, has made $200,000 on real estate, is a college man, a
Mason and an earnest Red Cross worker," you may well feel that you have quite a
good "picture" of the man.

THE PICTURE REVEALS INTERESTS

It is much easier to talk with a person of whose interests we know something,
and the prospect's "picture" would be very valuable to the life underwriter,
even if it served no other purpose than to facilitate the opening and conduct
of the interview by talking about things which concern the prospect and in
which he is therefore interested.

You have often had the following experience: You have been introduced to some
one—say, Mr. Rodman—at some gathering or reception and entered into a
conversation, starting with something with which both of you were familiar—the
purpose of the gathering, the talents or personality of the host, or the
weather. Almost immediately you have found yourself wondering who Mr. Rodman
really was, where he lived, in what business or profession he was engaged.
Perhaps you asked him point-blank if he lived "here," and what his business
was. And, in turn, Mr. Rodman was wondering about you and perhaps asking you
similar questions. A little later your host appeared and you told him that you
and Mr. Rodman "had been getting, acquainted." And how much easier it was for
both of you to keep the conversation going once each had learned something of
the other's interests.

If, before introducing you, your host had said, "Mr. Rodman is Secretary of the
Water Board, and Chairman of the local organization of the Red Cross; he is a
Princeton graduate, and has a lot of money; he is also Assistant Treasurer of
the Orient Manufacturing Company," you would have found it much easier to begin
your conversation. If your host had told you in advance that he was going to
introduce you to Mr. Rodman, but had not volunteered the information, you would
probably have said, "Who is Mr. Rodman?" or "Tell me something about him," for
you would have felt immediately that you would have a much "easier" time
talking with him if you could know what manner of man he was—what his interests
were.

But the "picture" serves another very important purpose. As we have already
seen, if, before attempting to discuss life insurance with a prospect, we can
know what are his responsibilities, his obligations, his problems, his purposes
in life, we may be able to discover the various needs which exist in his own
life and the lives of those with whom he is connected by family or business
ties and which may be satisfied by life insurance.

Below we print a specimen "picture" card prepared at Carnegie Tech by one of
Dr. John A. Stevenson's classes in Practical Selling. At first the card may
seem to some persons to be objectionable because of the many different kinds of
information indicated and because of the size of the card (8 inches by 5
inches). However, it is in constant use by Carnegie Tech students and
graduates, and a good many agencies are using it regularly. Once the
underwriter has begun to realize the value of "picture" details and that,
often, it is some, apparently insignificant bit of information that reveals the
correct way to the prospect's interests or to his needs, he may even think the
card ought to be larger than it is. The "picture" card is not to be carried
about. It remains in the file, as the permanent repository of cumulative
information about a prospect or an old client whose life insurance program is
being developed over a period of years. Even though you may have insured a
client several different times, his "picture" card should be kept and any new
information about him should be entered on the card from time to time, so that
you may on any occasion have before you the facts which may show how your
client may be further served through life insurance.

[graphic][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors]
[graphic]
[ocr errors]

GATHERING INFORMATION

WHILE practically all successful life underwriters agree that the more
information we can secure about a prospect, the easier it is to work out a
serviceable life insurance plan for him and to secure his interest and make the
sale, yet. they are not agreed as to how much time should be spent in securing
information before approaching the prospect. Many agents study their prospects
for some time before approaching them. Others do not. If they can gather
information quickly in advance, they do so; if not, they call without
information, trusting to their ability to get the desired facts from the
prospect himself. Different methods suit different people and the agent must
use the method by which he can get the best results. He must see many people in
order to do a proper amount of business; and if he finds he cannot collect
information in advance without retarding his production, then by all means he
should depend on the interview with his prospect for the necessary facts.
However, it must be conceded that the more information you can secure before
approach

ing the prospect, the better will be your chances of securing an interview,
arousing his interest in life insurance and making a sale.

The writer is personally acquainted with many underwriters who make it a
practice to collect very complete information about their prospects before they
submit a definite proposal. A friend, one of the most successful underwriters
in the country, recently said, "I never call on a man till I know 'all about
him.'"

Of course, the agent must have some information before he can make an
intelligent presentation of insurance to a given prospect. The only questions
are how and when to get the information.

There are three methods of obtaining information about prospects:

1. Securing it in advance through other persons.

2. Interviewing the prospect for advance information.

3. Securing information from the prospect at the time of the interview.

Let us illustrate each method with a concrete case.

SECURING ADVANCE INFORMATION
FROM OTHERS

An agent read in his morning newspaper that Mr. E had been promoted from
assistant manager to manager of the local branch of a national organization. He
had never met the man, although the name was not unfamiliar. The agent noted
Mr. E's name on a card, and wrote a congratulatory letter referring to the
promotion, and said he expected to call in a few days in regard to a life
insurance matter which had been suggested by the notice in the paper. During
the day the agent was in his bank and asked the cashier if he knew anything
about the new manager. The cashier did not, but gave the name of a man he knew
who was a customer of Mr. E's store. The cashier gave some interesting
information about the business. He said the previous manager had received a
salary of about $10,000 a year, although it was unlikely that the new manager
would get as much at the start. The next day the agent spent five minutes with
the man mentioned by the cashier, learned that his prospect Was about 32 years
old, had started in the stock room of the local store and gradually worked his
way to the top; that he was quick in doing business, and was said by a certain
banker to be a very promising man. On the way to his office the agent stopped
to see this banker (whom he knew) and learned that Mr. E was considered thrifty
and careful in investments. The agent said, "Suppose I should take Mr. E's note
for $1,000 in payment for a life insurance premium. Would you consider it a
safe credit?" The banker said: "Mr. E is probably good for any obligation he
would assume. We have known him since he was a boy." Answering another
question, the banker said that he thought E owned his own home. That day at the
City Club, the agent had some one point out Mr. E, who was lunching with
several other men. The agent knew one of them well and spoke to him before
leaving the club, commenting on E's promotion, then asking some questions. He
learned that E was married and had two or three young children, that he was a
golf player, a member of the Presbyterian Church, and an Elk. The agent was an
Elk himself. After reviewing all the information secured, he planned how he
should approach Mr. E and what, in general, should be the method of handling
the case. To gather this information, he had spent a few minutes in each of two
banks, called on a friend and spoken with a friend at the club. It is almost
certain that with this information in hand the agent would have a much more
satisfactory interview than he would without it.

A very common way of gathering information is to secure the names of prospects
from friends, clients, and acquaintances and to ask questions about each
person. The underwriter should develop a series of standard questions to use in
securing such information. The data given on the card reproduced on pages 30
and 31, will suggest certain questions.

A successful general agent told the author that he always has his new agents
begin gathering information in the following way: The beginner is told, "Go to
ten of your friends, those whose influence will be the most helpful to you,
tell them you have taken up life insurance as your life work and that you
desire their co-operation in starting to build the right sort of a clientele.
Ask each of them for five or ten names of persons who they believe need life
insurance. Then request your friends to give you all the information they can
about each person whose name has been listed, asking questions which will
assist your friends to give you the facts you want."

By this method each beginner starts with a list of people concerning whom he
has information before he calls on them. The new agent continues to gather
information about other prospects from week to week, so that he always has on
hand a list of prospects concerning whom he knows certain important facts.

SECURING ADVANCE INFORMATION
PROM THE PROSPECT

The second method—securing advance information from the prospect—is used by
many successful life agents. For example: An agent called on Mr. F, whose name
he had noted. He said, "Mr. F, my name is Van Doorn. I represent the Hearth and
Home Life Insurance Company. Like other men, you have certain needs which grow
out of your family and business relationships and which, either now or at some
time in the future, may be provided for with certainty in only one way—viz., 
through life insurance. No doubt you find yourself in the same situation as
does the average business man; if you ever adopt a substantial life insurance
program you will do so only after you have satisfied yourself that it has been
planned in such a way as to solve your economic problems of the future. Such
planning requires a scientific analysis of your needs and this I want the
privilege of doing for you. Your business is selling electrical power plants.
The first thing you do is to look over a man's place to see whether he really
needs a power plant. Sometimes you tell a prospect he has no need for one. But
you first get certain information and analyze it to discover what, if any,

needs exist for an electrical power plant. I haven't come to try to sell you
any life insurance this morning. I haven't any idea what amount of life
insurance, or what kind you need; or, indeed, whether you need anyBut I am
going to ask you to give me a little information in order that I may analyze
your personal and business needs in which life insurance may possibly be
helpful." This approach, or a different one, according to the case, is followed
by carefully planned questions, such as: "What is the date of your birth?" "Are
you married?" "Have you any children?" "Boys or girls?" "Their ages?" "Are all
the children in perfect health?" "Do you, like the average man (like myself),
carry a mortgage on your house?" "Do you, like the average good business man,
often have valuable securities deposited at your bank as collateral?" "Do you
mean to send your boy and your daughter to college?" "Have you arranged a plan
for buying out your partner's widow automatically, if your partner dies?" etc.

Sometimes, this preliminary call for information will result in an immediate
interview based on some question such as the last one, or on this one, "Do you
mean to send your boy and your daughter to college?" In such a case the agent's
questions have aroused the prospect's interest and the interview may proceed on
the basis of the need discovered.

As a rule the ''preliminary call" does not result in an interview unless the
agent intends that it shall; but the agent secures information which enables
him to select the right plan and method of presenting it at the "regular
interview," arranged for a convenient time.

In either of the two foregoing methods of securing information, the data are
collected in advance and then analyzed to determine the chief needs requiring
life insurance, and to find the interests of the prospect that can be most
effectively used in the interview. The beginner must not make the mistake of
considering the information as the end in view. The information will be of no
use unless it is used in a real interview. And don't make the mistake of using
too much time to prepare for the interview. Between the two extremes of making
no preparation and spending most of one's time getting ready lies the happy
mean— the securing of necessary information and devoting a reasonable time to
planning for the interview on the basis of the needs and interests discovered.

GETTING INFORMATION AT THE
REGULAR INTERVIEW

A large number of successful life insurance salesmen gather practically no
advance information. They solicit by "straight canvass" without any information
or having merely selected prospects by such standards as health, financial
ability and good habits. They depend on an approach which arouses curiosity or
some other interest of the prospect and then, before proceeding with the
interview, secure information on the basis of which the interview is
immediately built up.

For example: An underwriter called on Mr. G, whom he had never met. He knew
only that Mr. G was manager of the store. The underwriter said, "Mr. G, my name
is Ford. I represent the Hearth and Home Life Insurance Company. You have a
fine business here and I want to insure it for you." Mr. G replied, "I thought
you said you represented a life insurance company." "Right," said Ford, "the
Hearth and Home Life Insurance Company, but my specialty is insuring various
businesses." Mr. G said, "Well, I didn't know that life insurance companies
wrote fire insurance." "They don't," said Mr. Ford, "but they write business
insurance. I'll explain our proposition. But first may I ask you a few
questions so that I can explain our plan on the basis of your particular
business?" "What do you want to know?" asked Mr. G.

"Are you the sole owner, or have you a partner?"

"There is a partner."

"Are you equal partners?"

"No, I own a two-thirds interest."

"Is your partner active or silent?"

"Silent. He merely has a financial interest. I run the business."

"Please don't answer this question unless you want to, but it will help me, if
you do. What is a conservative estimate of the value of the total capital
invested?"

"I don't mind telling you; we have $40,000 invested here."

"And you have a two-thirds investment interest and take two-thirds of the
profits?"

"Yes."

"And you are making 20 per cent interest on your invested capital?"

"Better than that—30 per cent."

"Splendid. Now here's my proposition." And Ford proceeded to explain how life
insurance could be used to protect the family's interest in the business, to
strengthen credit, and to build up a sinking fund for future emergencies.

Soliciting without advance information is more effective in selling small
policies than in developing larger lines. Consistent selling of large or even
fair sized lines, or of life insurance programs, requires, except perhaps in
very exceptional cases, that a certain amount of information be collected and
analyzed. Proper consideration cannot be given to the prospect's needs, unless
his needs are carefully reviewed either before or during the interview. There
is grave danger that this may not be done at all if it is not done in advance.
The cases of people whose means are too small to permit of their carrying more
than $2,000 to $5,000, can, as a rule, be satisfactorily handled without
advance information. Yet even in small cases, if the agent knows something
about his prospect his task will be easier and he can be more certain that he
will give the prospect what he ought to have.

SUMMARY

It is obvious that, if we have essential information about a prospect's
responsibilities and interests, it is much easier to determine his needs and to
decide how our interview may be made interesting to him. Many of the most
successful salesmen in the country make it a rule to call only on people con

cerning whom they are well informed. They get names from friends and
policyholders, even from prospects they have failed to sell, because it is then
easy to secure advance information. They cultivate "centers of influence,"*
persons who become interested in them and their work and who are glad to
indicate new prospects and give essential information.

These successful underwriters do not, however, make the mistake of spending an
undue proportion of their time in securing information. If they can't get the
desired information readily in advance, they go direct to the proposed
prospects and ask questions in such a tactful way that the prospects, though
strangers, usually tell what is wanted. If you find you cannot get the
necessary information in advance without sacrificing time which should be spent
in interviews with your prospects, you should by all means get your information
from the prospects themselves; even if you are obliged to do "straight
canvass."

After all, the most important thing in successful soliciting is to spend as
much of your business day as possible talking with

*For an explanation of "centers of influence" see Selling Life Insurance, by
John A. Stevenson (Harper & Brothers).

your prospects. No matter how much time you may have spent preparing to see
people, if you do not interview them, you cannot succeed.

Of course, the rule for average cases does not always hold good for large
cases. It often pays to take plenty of time to secure essential information
before attempting a big case, even though it may result in considerable
postponement of the interview. Yet many of our most successful underwriters
depend even on the "big prospects" for their information.

As in everything else, there must be a combination of a good system used with
common sense, and practical business economy —including economy of time—must be
kept constantly in mind.

PART II CASE ANALYSIS

[ocr errors]

CASE ANALYSIS

ACOSTLY experience with automobile electrical repair men illustrates the
purpose of training the life insurance beginner in the analysis of life
situations. The writer's car seemed to be ill. If it had been a human being, a
doctor would probably have diagnosed the case as heart trouble; there were
unmistakable signs that there was no current. However, as the invalid was an
automobile we went to the auto "service" man.

This individual very promptly said, "You need a new battery. This one is all
shot." Although we were not quite sure what "shot" meant, it was clear that the
prescription would cost about $40. The prescription was filled and the bill
paid, but in a few days the new battery was down. This was before the common
installation of ammeters on the dash, and after a week or two of exchanging
batteries (with a rental charge), an "expert electrical service man"—so his
advertisement ran—tested the generator, announced that "she wasn't making any
juice," rebuilt a portion of the generator and presented a

bill for about $35. In a day or so the battery was down again.

At last, after careful search, a man was found who was declared by several of
the leading automobile dealers to be the only electrical engineer who could be
employed for such work. This man opened the cover of the generator, took one
look, said what the trouble was and, the next day, had it really fixed.

While paying the engineer's bill, the author told of his previous experiences
and asked why it was the other men had not been able to remedy the trouble.
"Because," the engineer said, "they are not trained fundamentally. They can't
diagnose trouble. If they had only known what was the matter, they could have
done the work just as well as I could."

It is even more important that the life underwriter be trained in discovering
the real trouble which must be remedied by the use of life insurance; for, too
often, mistakes are discovered only after the death of the insured—usually
errors of omission rather than of commission on the agent's part— failure to
provide for needs which become apparent to the family only after it is too
late.

The average agent would have failed to solve the problem of the farmer who was
helped by Mr. William H. Jones simply because he would have been untrained in
diagnosis or analysis. Yet it is comparatively easy to learn how to analyze
life situations, and the chief purpose of this book is to show the beginner by
a few concrete examples how he may practice analysis by considering each bit of
information about a prospect.

Six cases of different types are presented in the following pages. First the
pictures are given. Then the information is analyzed and the needs are fully
discussed. Finally certain life insurance plans or programs are suggested.

It is not possible to make an exact science of life insurance diagnosis and
prescription any more than the doctors and lawyers have succeeded in making
exact sciences of medicine and law. Life underwriters differ in their analyses
of situations, just as do physicians and lawyers. Often physicians will
accomplish the same results by different treatments. Likewise different
underwriters may arrive at a satisfactory solution of a client's economic
problems by different plans, provided the case receives careful thought and
attention.

HOW TO STUDY THE CASES

Each of the cases analyzed is discussed at considerable length. It may occur to
some that the discussions are too long and that the points developed could have
been made clear with less detail. However, these discussions have been prepared
with the idea of furnishing examples of how we may "think cases through" by
putting ourselves in the prospect's place, seeing what his situation is, what
his point of view, and trying to decide what are his objectives in life and
what is lacking to assure the accomplishment of the things he wants to do for
himself, his wife, his children, or for others to whom he has some obligation.

In studying the cases given here, it will be better not to read more than one
of them the same day. Otherwise, they may become confused. They are not for
hasty reading, but rather for careful study. After you have been over a case,
re-read the picture, close the book, and think the case over for yourself. Make
a note of your ideas, particularly if they differ from our analysis. Write down
any new thoughts that occur to you.

When you have studied John Brown and taken up Paul Miller, or some other case,
you will, no doubt, find some suggestions that have already been made in
previous cases, and you may think the repetition unnecessary. Indeed,
repetition may be unnecessary for you; but it is an advantage to the average
student to have certain ideas emphasized by repeating them. Moreover, this
repetition is natural; for, as we proceed in our soliciting from one new case
to another, we find that, while there are many essential differences between
them, there are also many points of similarity.

If you have the patience to write out a full discussion of a few cases during
your evening study hours, although the exercise may seem long and tedious, you
will be repaid for your trouble. Soon, however, you will discard this laborious
practice and simply "think your cases through," making necessary notes of the
needs you will talk about, and outlining your plans or programs.

THINKING YOUR OWN CASES
THROUGH

If you desire to become skillful in "thinking cases through," try the following
as a regular plan: In the evening, take your memoranda of information about the
prospects you expect to call on the next day and sit where you will not be
interrupted. Read carefully the picture of a prospect, pausing long enough on
each detail to be sure that you have fixed it in your mind. Then begin to think
of your prospect, putting yourself in his place, letting your imagination tell
you what are his problems and his specific objectives in life, and what he must
accomplish, if he would attain them. Picture, if you can, what it will mean to
him if he lives to see his hopes realized. Then imagine what loss there might
be to his family, or business, or to other persons to whom he may have some
obligation, if he should die prematurely.

Keep this thought constantly in mind: The imagination of the prospect will not
be awakened by the agent unless the agent's own imagination has been stimulated
by the pictures which have flashed into his mind as he has analyzed the
prospect's situation, considered his responsibilities, obligations and
problems, and tried to imagine the prospect's hopes, ambitions and purposes for
the future.

At first, the beginner may find it somewhat difficult to follow, in his own
thinking and planning, the suggestions arising from the cases presented in this
part of our book. But practice will gradually bring him to the point where the
"picture" of the prospect will quickly suggest "needs" and their solution.

SELECT ONE URGENT NEED

In deciding what plan, or program, to suggest upon approaching the prospect, it
may be unwise to select a complete program

at the start. You may work out a complete program; but as a rule you should
select some one urgent need that would seem to make a strong appeal to the
prospect and concentrate your sales talk on this one need. Once he has become
your client, it becomes much easier to submit a more comprehensive plan. VI

THE JOHN BROWNS—A THRIFTLESS FAMILY

THE first case to be analyzed is that of a person whom we shall call John
Brown. You have known many John Browns, and you will meet more of them, with
just such wives as Mrs. Brown and little children like the Browns' baby girl.
The following picture tells their story:

Picture—John Brown, thirty years old. Is married and has one child, a girl two
years old. Is chief clerk in a steel-manufacturing company and receives a
salary of $4000 a year. Has never saved any money and has no estate. Carries no
life insurance. Says he and his wife are still young and have plenty of time to
save for the future. Says he "does not need any life insurance"; Mrs. Brown was
a milliner before she was married, and expects in case of her husband's death
to open a millinery shop and earn a good living for herself and child. The
Browns live with Mrs. Brown's parents, who are not in good circumstances.

The Browns are typical of thousands of American families and in analyzing their
needs we shall point out several that will be found in many other cases.

NEEDS NEW ATTITUDE

The first need we see is for a new attitude toward life. The Browns are
spendthrifts. Their mental, as well as their physical life, is thriftless. They
have no conception of the value of time as a factor in permanent success. Their
chief purpose in life is "to have a good time"—to enjoy temporary pleasures
without a thought of future happiness. They appreciate only the minor values of
life. The larger values of life—orderly habits in their thinking and their
living, contentment, foresight in dealing with their economic problems, laying
a foundation for their daughter's happiness, establishing the means of a
comfortable rather than a wretched old age—these greater values of life now
mean little to the Browns. They don't realize that such things will bring much
more real happiness and satisfaction than the little pleasures in which they
are interested.

Intimately connected with this need of a new attitude toward life is the need
for the habit of laying up whatever margin of Brown's earnings can be saved, by
careful planning of their expenditures and the elimination of unnecessary
expenses. Saving is the result of careful spending. The Browns would no doubt
like to have an estate, but they do not truly desire a substantial estate as
much as they desire the trifles in which they are constantly indulging. It is
obvious that they will never have any estate unless they modify their spending
habits materially. They need to understand the greater value to them and to
their child of money saved for the future, as against the value of the things
on which they now fritter away their time and their money. Only then will they
be disposed to save. But without a system to develop the habit of saving, they
will never succeed. Some plan is necessary by which they can regulate their
spending in such a way as to save money every month, over a long period of
years.

THEIFTY HABITS

The saving habit will do much more for the Browns than merely to make it
possible to accumulate money. It will help, perhaps as much as anything else,
to give them the new angle on life which they so greatly need. People who are
thrifty in their finances are likely to be thrifty in other habits, even in
their thinking. Waste in any form may become abhorrent to the man who caiefully
and regularly saves his money, especially if he saves with worth-while purposes
in mind. And it becomes easier to interest the man who is orderly in his living
in what we have called the greater values of life.

NEEDS TO GET AHEAD

Brown needs to strengthen his chances for success. He has done fairly well thus
far. At thirty he has $4,000 a year and a position of some responsibility.
Apparently his success thus far has been due to his ability. But the man who
attains large and permanent business success must be careful to form certain
habits which will be helpful in business. There can be little question but that
the man who saves his money will, other things being equal, be a better man in
business than the man who does not save. Thrift habits in personal affairs
necessarily beget thrift in business affairs. Moreover, Brown's employer will
no doubt have a higher opinion of him if Brown settles down to a program of
careful spending and saving. His banker will think better of him and, as he
accumulates an estate, a higher estimate of him as a business man will prevail
in his community. The time may come when Brown will have a chance to make a
good business connection requiring the investment of some money. If he wants to
accept it, he must have money of

his own or he must be able to borrow. Unless he begins soon to save his money,
he is not likely to have any funds when the need arises; and, unless he saves
his money, he will not impress his banker nearly so favorably as a credit risk
as he would if he had saved an amount which seemed fairly large, taking into
account the size of his earnings and his opportunities to save. Lenders of
money are greatly influenced by a man's intentions and purposes. If Brown had
tried to accumulate something, had saved all he could, but had been obliged to
use his savings on account of illness in the family, or had suffered some
investment loss which did not reflect seriously on his judgment, a banker
would, nevertheless, grant a loan much more willingly than he would if he knew
Brown had always been a spendthrift. A purpose and an effort to save are
important factors in establishing personal credit.

NEEDS SAFETY IN EMERGENCIES

Brown's present situation is really deplorable. With no savings, no emergency
fund, what would he do if he had a long illness. Unless his company was willing
to continue his salary, he would have to borrow the money to pay the doctor's
fees and the hospital bills. There are jthousands of families in which failure
to save in times of good health and high earning power have resulted, in
emergencies, in an accumulation of debts which have not only handicapped the
whole family, but have depressed them and lowered their morale. Young married
people should save for the rainy day; for sooner or later it comes to everyone,
and he who is not prepared for it may suffer permanently from its effects. The
Browns need to accumulate a substantial emergency fund.

OLD-AGE PROVISION

This suggests another need that can be satisfied only by spending carefully and
saving regularly over a long period of time. The Browns are young now, but they
will not always be so. Old age seems far away; the average young man or woman
can hardly picture himself or herself as an old man or an old woman. Perhaps it
is fortunate for many reasons that young people take such a rosy view of life.
But, in one sense, it is unfortunate that young people can't realize how short
life is; that even three-score years and ten pass quickly, and that the years
of strength and talent are none too long to prepare against old-age dependency.
Of a large number of persons in good health at thirty to thirty-five years of
age, about onehalf of the total number will live to be seventy years old. And
how many of them will be prepared to spend their old age in reasonable comfort
and peace? Statistics give a sad answer to this question. The vast majority of
men who attain sixty to seventy years of age are dependent on other people.
Because of ill health or failing mind or a decrease in ability, they are
obliged to give up their work; or they fail in business, or lose their
positions.

Most old men and women are unhappy,

living on the bounty of their children or other relatives, occupying homes for
old men and women or eking out a poor living by some unpleasant employment. No
doubt, a great many of them have been comfortable in the past and could have
laid by something for their old age had they been willing to make the necessary
sacrifices. Mr. and Mrs. Brown need to begin saving now for their old age.

LIFE INSURANCE REJECTED

Brown carries no life insurance. Mrs. Brown does not see the necessity for it
and he agrees with her. They reject life insurance as a needless "expense" that
would deprive them of other things. Mrs. Brown thinks she has solved the
problem of income after her husband's death. She was a milliner before she
married, and says that, if her husband dies, she can earn a satisfactory living
for herself and her daughter by opening a millinery shop. It is true that many
women have done such a thing; but let us see whether there are needs for which
this plan might not provide.

In discussing life insurance with a prospect, it is usually helpful to begin
with some idea or plan in which the prospect is already interested. We find
that the Browns have already decided that they will depend on Mrs. Brown's
ability to earn a living in case of Brown's death. Here is an interest, or
plan, already established. Let us see if it can be linked up with life
insurance.

THE NEED FOR CAPITAL

Even from the Browns' own point of view, life insurance seems to be
indispensable. Suppose Brown dies and that Mrs. Brown decides to open a
millinery shop. She will require capital. She must rent a shop, buy fixtures
and furnishings, purchase a stock of goods and, perhaps, employ some help.
Then, unless she has unusually good fortune, there will be a period during
which she will not earn very much. Her place must become known. Buyers
accustomed to go elsewhere will only gradually transfer their patronage to her
shop. It takes time to build up a satisfactory trade. Capital will be needed to
open the shop, keep it running, and provide for living expenses, until Mrs.
Brown has had time to build up her business to a point of profit large enough
to pay her own living expenses and those of her daughter. We may congratulate
Brown upon having a wife who is competent and willing to support herself and
her daughter in this way; yet we should point out to him that their plans
cannot succeed unless there is capital. Since they do not wish to deprive
themselves by saving a large part of their income, he should at least save a
little and use the money to carry a few thousand dollars of life insurance to
provide the capital to start the shop and keep it going until Mrs. Brown has
had time to build up a business.

FINAL EXPENSES

But suppose that Brown provides, say, $3,000 of life insurance for this purpose
and that he dies. What then? Mrs. Brown will undoubtedly find that her capital
will not all be available for the millinery business. Brown was ill for, say,
two or three months,

and perhaps had an operation. Mrs. Brown finds that she has a lot of bills to
pay—doctors' bills, the surgeon's bill, medicine bills, hospital bills and
bills for nursing, food and other expenses. What a lot of money it costs to be
ill and to die! Funeral expenses are high. The Browns didn't own a lot in the
cemetery and Mrs. Brown had to buy one. During Brown's illness bills
accumulated at all the stores. Mrs. Brown pays them. There was $3,000 to
provide capital to start the little shop. More than half of it is already
spent; and the widow is in no condition to undertake a business at this time.
She must wait until she can get rest and recover from the numb pain that seems
to possess her mind and body. She and her husband had been living at the rate
of over $300 a month. She reduces expenses in every way possible to, say, $125
a month. Six months elapse. Her capital has shrunk to about $750.

Brown and his wife can both see that what would really happen would be
something like the above. The money intended for capital wouldn't suffice. If
he dies Mrs. Brown ought to have at hand enough life insurance money to square
Brown with the world, to pay her living expenses for six months or a year, and
to furnish $3,000 or $4)000 clear with which to set up in business.

IF MRS. BROWN DIED

Let us assume that this is done. Is the the plan now made safe? Did you ever
hear of a wife or a husband dying within a comparatively short time after the
other had passed away? It isn't an uncommon occurrence. Suppose that Mrs. Brown
has enough money at her husband's death to pay all outstanding bills and
funeral expenses and to buy a lot in the cemetery, that she uses her capital to
start the millinery shop, and the business succeeds, but that she dies while
the child is still young. In this case, the Browns' plan will fail. After all,
the real problem is to make it possible for Mrs. Brown to see that the child is
taken care of until it is grown, and that it receives a proper education. If
she should die while child is still young (and this is possible) how will the
child be cared for? Perhaps the grandparents will look after her. But from the
" picture," we see that they are not in good circumstances. They probably will
not be able to give Brown's daughter the advantages he wants her to have. And
they are no longer young. If the grandfather dies or becomes incapacitated, the
child might, at a tender age, find it necessary to go to work to help support
the home. Such a situation would not be a strange or unusual one. There are
thousands and thousands of similar cases in the world all the time.

Mrs. Brown might not die before her daughter grew up. But she might have a long
illness, or her health might fail to such an extent that she would lose her
business. Or, the business might fail, even if she kept her health. Such shops
are being opened and closed year in and year out in all our cities.

So life insurance is needed to enable the Browns to guarantee capital for the
millinery shop, to pay off bills at his death, so that the capital will not be
used for this purpose; also to furnish a certain amount for living expenses so
that if Mrs. Brown has a long illness, she and the child will not be destitute,
and to guarantee that, if Mrs. Brown, too, dies, the little daughter will have
something to live on.

THE CHILD'S GREATEST NEED

The Browns' plan to depend on Mrs. Brown's success in a millinery business
causes us to think of a most important need which has probably never occurred
to them, as it rarely occurs to many other fathers and mothers. What will
Brown's child need more than anything else, if its father dies? When Brown, at
his business, thinks of home, he thinks of mother and child. The average mother
and a young child are practically inseparable, except after the little one's
bedtime has come. Even the mother who has a nurse for her babies is with them
or near them most of the time, watching out for their welfare in every
particular. If Mrs. Brown should die, her little daughter would lose that great
advantage enjoyed by the child who grows up under its mother's eyes. A child
can sustain no greater loss than the death of its mother. If Mrs. Brown should
suggest spending most of her time away from home and leaving her baby now to
someone else to look after, Brown would realize how keenly he feels the need of
his child for its mother. Yet he has allowed his wife to propose, and he has
accepted, a plan (contingent on his death) which would result in just what he
knows would be a very unfortunate thing for his daughter. If Mrs. Brown runs
the millinery shop, how can she give her child proper care? Brown's child needs
its mother's time now and, if Brown dies, will need its mother's time even more
than now. It will need the mother's supervision of its physical, mental and
moral welfare. Nobody else will do for the child what its mother will do. No
nurse or governess or friend, nor even an aunt or grandmother will, as a rule,
do for the child what its mother would do. There is no advantage Brown can give
his little daughter that she will need more if anything happens to Brown, than
to guarantee that she can have her mother's time. Life insurance should be used
to keep Mrs. Brown free of any responsibility that may deprive her baby of a
chance to have good health, and to be well educated, and to grow up under
proper moral influences.

THE NEED OF INCOME PROTECTION

The "picture" reveals another point to be carefully considered. Mrs. Brown's
parents, with whom the Browns are living, are not in good circumstances.
Suppose Brown left life insurance payable in a lump sum. The needs of Mrs.
Brown's parents might be such as to cause her to spend a considerable part of
her life insurance money trying to help them. Her father might become unable to
earn any income. There might be a serious illness, an operation, need of a
change of climate for the father or mother or both of them. Would it, or would
it not, be natural for Mrs. Brown to spend her money to help her aged parents?
If Brown

wants to assure his wife and child the means to pay their living expenses until
the little daughter is grown up, he should provide an income payable monthly
for a specified number of years, rather than a lump sum.

After all, then, wouldn't it be better if the Browns would abandon the idea of
having Mrs. Brown support the child, in case of Brown's death, and, instead of
leaving capital with which to open a shop, .concentrate their savings on a plan
to assure Mrs. Brown an income for living expenses at least until the child is
grown. It would also be wise to leave a certain amount at Brown's death in cash
to pay his final expenses.

SUMMARY

Needs:

Mrs. Brown:

1. She will need money to pay outstanding bills at Brown's death.

2. She will need money to pay Brown's doctors' bills and funeral expenses, and
buy a cemetery lot.

3. She will need money every month to pay living expenses.

The Child: 1. The child will need support until she is grown.

2. She will need her mother's time and care more than anything else, and she
can have them only if her mother is free from the necessity of working.

3. She will need an education and should be free of the necessity of working,
at least until she has finished high school.

Brown:

1. Needs to cultivate the habit of thrift if he expects to be permanently
successful.

2. He needs to build up a fund 'for emergencies.

3. He needs to create an estate for bis
old age.

Life Insurance Requirements to Satisfy
Above Needs

1. Cash payable at Brown's death to pay out

standing bills, doctors' bills, and funeral expenses, say $2,000

2. Small income for Mrs. Brown, payable for

life if possible—To provide $25 monthly,
on interest option, say at 4J^%, will re-
quire about 7,000

3. Additional income for twenty years to en

able her to take good care of child and
train and educate her properly—To pro-
vide average amount of about $75 a
month for twenty years only, assuming
surplus interest of, say, 1H%> will require
about

13,000 $22,000

Total.

Program:

The Browns should save at least 20 per cent of their income, $800, and Brown
should invest $500 or $600 a year in ordinary life or long endowment insurance.
At age thirty, $22,000 will require an initial annual deposit (participating 3
per cent basis) of about $520 on the ordinary life plan, or about $630 for
endowment maturing at age sixty-five (non-participating rates, 3% per cent,
about $100 less than the initial participating premiums, 3 per cent.)

Settlements at death: $ 2,000 in cash

$ 7,000 at interest until Mrs. Brown is fifty years old,

then in continuous installments, twenty years certain.

$13,000 in twenty years installments certain.

Total amount of monthly income for twenty years about $100, and $25 to $30
thereafter for life.

The child should be named as contingent

beneficiary for all the insurance. Cash value at age sixty-five—

Ordinary life—22 X $549
Endowment, sixty-five..

$12,078 $22,000

The plan to recommend will depend on how Brown's interest develops, i.e., 
whether the agent's discussion arouses interest chiefly in the protection for
his family or in saving for his old age. The analysis of the case indicates
that it will be best to develop, first, protection for the child, then for the
mother in order that she may help the child, and, finally, for old-age savings
and the value of habits of thrift.

Life Income Plan

Instead of a simple ordinary life or long endowment policy with income
settlements, it might be desirable to use one of these plans in connection with
the deferred survivorship annuity, commonly known as the monthly income policy
or the continuousinstallment policy. A given amount of premiums on this plan
would give Mrs. Brown (now probably about twenty-eight years old) a larger
income than a continuousinstallment settlement under a regular life or
endowment policy, provided Brown died during the next twenty-two or
twenty-three years. If Brown survived twenty-two or twenty-three years the
continuous-installment option under the regular life or endowment policy would
pay a larger income than the monthly income policy.

It is more important to provide the maximum possible income while the child is
young, rather than after it is grown, and the monthly income policy might well
be recommended.

On the other hand, since cash values (for a given premium) are larger on
regular life and endowment policies than on the monthly income policies, if
Brown should become greatly interested in the oldage provision, the regular
policies might be preferable.

FOR IMMEDIATE ACTION

Eventually the entire program should be sold to Brown, if possible, as a plan
that will not only protect his child and his wife and enable him to save some
money for himself, but will also make it possible for him to spend the rest of
bis money, if he feels he must, without any fear as to the welfare of the
family in case of his death.

At first, however, since the complete minimum program will look very large to
such a spendthrift, it would probably be wise to begin by submitting say,
$7,000 to supply $2,000 cash for final expenses and emergencies and $5,000 to
furnish capital or to provide an income of 5 x $65.25=$326.25 a year, or a
little over

$27 a month to pay the rent of a small

apartment for twenty years.

Or, Brown might be willing to invest about $350 to $375 a year in life
insurance, in which case we might recommend $15,000 of ordinary life or long
endowment— $2,000 for final expenses and $13,000 payable about $70 a month
(plus interest) for twenty years. This would pay rent and groceries for twenty
years. Or $5,000 could be used for business capital, and the balance of $8,000
would pay nearly $45 a month for twenty years.

Only in rare instances is it likely that, in such a case as John Brown's, the
entire program would be assumed at the start.

VII

THE PAUL MILLERS—A THRIFTY FAMILY

IT is unfortunate that there are not more people like Paul Miller* and his
wife, whose case we shall study in this chapter. They are good citizens and set
a fine example for their child to follow.

Picture—Paul Miller, twenty-seven years old; wife, twenty-five; one child two
years old. Is a traveling salesman, earning a salary of $3,000 a year. He has
bought a house for $8,000, on which he still owes $5,000, that is to be paid on
the installment plan at the rate of $600 a year. Interest on mortgage is 7 per
cent. He carries no life insurance.

CHIEF INTEREST IS THE HOME

The first point we observe in considering the Miller family is that their
attitude toward life is in marked contrast to that of the John Browns. The
Millers realize the value of foresight and thrift. They are already saving
their money. Although not yet thirty years old, they have a definite ob

*This case, under a different name, was discussed by another writer in an
insurance journal some months ago. However, it originated in the writer's
classes at Carnegie Tech and has been used there for the past three years.

jective—a home—for which they are glad to make a sacrifice of temporary
pleasures. They have been married only a few years, yet they have paid $3,000
on their $8,000 home. They may have had a couple of thousand dollars for the
first payment; but they have probably made at least one or two payments of $600
each on account of their mortgage. They still owe $5,000, and are to reduce
this at the rate of $600 a year. It will require eight years and four months
longer to complete the principal payments at this rate. Thus they have laid out
a definite savings program for several years ahead. With an income of only
$3,000 a year, it is apparent that, in order to live comfortably and keep up
the payments on the principal, as well as interest payments, the Millers must
plan their expenses carefully. It is clear that one of the Millers' chief
interests is their home. Probably no other investment would interest them so
much. They attach to the home more than a financial interest. It possesses for
them also a sentimental interest. They love the house, enjoy the feeling of
ownership, the sense of security, which it affords. It is, therefore,
reasonable to assume that the life insurance need which the Millers would feel
most keenly would be a provision to guarantee that Mrs. Miller and the child
would own the home, have it all paid for, if anything happened to Miller.

In considering any case, it is wise, as stated in the Brown case, to begin with
needs suggested by some interest which the prospect already has. In the Browns'
case, we saw that they had adopted the idea that Mrs. Brown would earn a living
for herself and daughter if Brown died prematurely, and we first pointed out
the need of capital to start the business. The Millers have a splendid plan to
own their home and that suggests, as the need of most immediate interest, the
necessity of money to pay off the mortgage if Miller dies, so that the wife and
child may own the property clear of all indebtedness and have a home assured
them.

It is not certain that Mrs. Miller and the child ought to occupy their home
after Miller's death. Much will depend on how far Miller can go in providing
expenses for maintaining such a home. He knows that it takes considerable money
to run his house. If he can't leave his wife a sufficient income, she may be
obliged to rent the house or sell it. But the mortgage insurance would be just
as important, if Mrs. Miller were not to occupy it, as if she should do so; for
unless the mortgage could be paid, there might be a forced sale with a
shrinkage in Mrs. Miller's equity; and if Miller has bought his house under a
certain type of installment contract (we hope he has not), the equity will be
lost unless all payments are completed. With the mortgage paid off, in case it
were necessary to sell the house Mrs. Miller could wait for a good real estate
market or for a buyer who wanted her house so much that he would pay a good
price. If she could, in good time, sell it for $8,000, this money, properly
invested, would pay her, at 5 per cent, $400 a year, about $33 a month, for
which she could probably rent a small heated apartment or rooms.

It is probable, however, that Miller would expect that his family would
continue to live in their home in case of his death.

KEEPING THE HOME INTACT

With the mortgage provided for, Miller would regret to have anything happen
that might impair his wife's interest in the home. Yet if he provides only
enough life insurance in cash to pay the mortgage, she may not be able to keep
the house free from debt. When Miller dies, there will be a good many bills to
pay, amounting to a considerable total. Funeral expenses will require several

hundred dollars; it may be necessary to buy a lot in the cemetery; there will
be doctors' bills and possibly a surgeon's bill and hospital and nurses' bills.
Accumulated bills at the grocery, the drug store, the department store and many
other accounts will have to be settled. The total may well reach from $1,500 to
$2,000; and when all these things are paid for, there may not be enough money
left to pay off the mortgage, certainly not if Miller should die soon. There is
need for life insurance to cover all these cash requirements, at Miller's
death, in addition to the mortgage. If the mortgage were paid off before Miller
died and he left no life insurance, Mrs. Miller might find it necessary to
borrow money on a new mortgage in order to pay the various bills. From whatever
angle we view the situation, life insurance will be needed to protect the home,
in which the Millers are so deeply interested.

TAXES AND LIVING EXPENSES

So far as we know, Miller's equity in his home constitutes his only estate.
With the mortgage lifted, his family would have the greater part of their rent
paid for life—most of it, but not all, for there would be taxes, fire insurance
and repairs to pay annually. There must be a certain amount of income from some
source to complete the "rent" by paying these costs.

Then there will be other regular living expenses from month to month. The house
must be heated in the winter, and it will cost something to run the kitchen
range. The house must be lighted at night. There will be grocery bills to pay.
While the child is young, it should have at least a quart of milk a day. At
fifteen cents a quart, it will require $1,000 safely invested at hx/i per cent
to provide one quart of milk a day, year in and year out. At fifteen cents for
a full sized loaf of bread, it will take another $1,000 safely invested at per
cent to provide one loaf a day, year in and year out. In addition to groceries,
meat and milk, there will be incidental housekeeping bills, new clothing must
be brought from time to time. There will be doctors' and dentists' bills, and
there will be some expense incurred for the child's education, etc.; there must
be provision for recreation and there should be some allowance for a little
vacation every summer, a change to the country or the seashore for a few weeks.

THE CHILD'S NEEDS

Suppose Miller should die within the year. The child is only two years old. For
the next sixteen or seventeen years at least Mrs. Miller should be in a
position to take care of the child comfortably without its having to aid in the
family support. This would enable it to go through high-school. It would, of
course, be still better if Mrs. Miller could support the child completely until
it was, say, twenty years old, in order that it might have the advantages of
special vocational training after finishing the high-school course.

Just as we saw in the Brown case, there is here also the need of the child for
its mother's time and care; Mrs. Miller should, if possible, be relieved of the
necessity of earning money for her living expenses while the child is growing
up. It appears, then, that there ought to be life insurance to enable Mrs.
Miller to keep up the house and to pay all the other living expenses, at least
until the child has finished its education. Afterwards, it would also be
desirable, if it could be arranged, for her to have a certain smaller provision
for her own living expenses.

PRINCIPAL NEEDS

The chief needs we see in the Miller case which could well be provided for by
means of life insurance are (1) cash to lift the mortgage, (2) cash to pay
funeral expenses, doctors' bills, etc., (3) cash to pay outstanding bills, (4)
a monthly income for payment of bills for groceries, clothing, medical care and
incidental expenses, and for taxes, fire insurance and repairs on the home. The
monthly income should be sufficient to provide for both mother and child until
the child is eighteen or twenty years old. There should also be a small income
paid to Mrs. Miller during the balance of her life. She is now twenty-five
years old. She will be forty-five when the child reaches age twenty. Unless she
is a woman of considerable ability or has had special training or previous
business experience, she would at this age find it hard to earn a good living.
It may be difficult for Miller to provide a life income for his wife, but this
is clearly one of the needs we see.

What Can Miller Afford?

Needing or desiring something and being able to afford it are two quite
different things. Miller, with his attitude toward life, will probably be very
much interested in the analysis of his life insurance needs. It is quite likely
that he will recognize all of the suggestions as being reasonable, but the next
thought that will come to his mind, as well as to the mind of the life
underwriter, will be how far he can go toward adopting this program. Perhaps we
may find that he can't adopt an adequate program as indicated above. Possibly
he can do much more than he thinks. This question must be decided by Miller,
but the underwriter should help him with suggestions.

If Miller will budget his expenses, he may accurately determine how much he can
invest in life insurance. He earns a salary of $3,000 a year. As he is a
traveling salesman, we may assume that his board is paid while he is away from
home.

He is paying $600 a year on his mortgage. His interest the first year will be 7
per cent on $5,000, or $350. Taxes will vary, according to where he lives. In
the suburbs of Pittsburgh, they would probably be about $150 a year. Fire
insurance will cost $10 a year and, if the house is a new one, repairs may not
exceed $50 a year provided Miller attends to all the easy repairs himself. This
makes a total of $1,150, leaving a balance of income amounting to $1,850.

UNITED STATES TREASURY THRIFT BUDGET

The United States Treasury thrift budget for a family of three with an income
of $3,000 a year provides for a total of rent and savings amounting to about
$1,000. Miller's rent (taxes, interest and upkeep) and savings

[merged small][merged small][table]

($600) amount to about $1,150; so he has $150 a year less remaining for other
provisions than he would have if he followed the United States Treasury budget.
Moreover, the United States Treasury budget makes no special mention of life
insurance. This is, no doubt, covered by the general item of savings, $636 a
year, just about the amount Miller is saving by annual payment on his mortgage.
If Miller carries a substantial life insurance, he and his wife must adopt a
more economical scale of living than the United States Treasury budget. It will
be difficult; yet it is possible. Perhaps they can and will do it. As Miller is
traveling most of the time, they may be able to save, say, one-fourth of the
food allowance, $48, for which the budget provides. That makes $12 a month, or
$144 a year. They might save $10 a month, or $120 a year more, from other
items. This would make a total of $264, which is probably as much as we could
expect the Millers to save, under the circumstances. But they can do it,
barring serious illness. If they have heavy doctors' bills, they will probably
be obliged to borrow the money, or to pay off the bills gradually.

The author is well acquainted with a man whose financial situation is
practically identical with Paul Miller's and who saves $400 a year for life
insurance; Fyet by good management he and his wife and child are living
comfortably and are highly respected in their community.

MORE MONEY FOR LIFE INSURANCE

Next year and each year thereafter for several years Miller will have a little
more money for life insurance than he has now. Each payment of $600 on the
mortgage reduces his interest charges by 7 per cent of $600, or $42. Every year
for the next eight and one-third years, if he pays off $600 on the mortgage, he
will have $42 less interest to pay than he paid the year before. The money
released in this way will increase year by year as follows, $42, $84, $126,
$168, $210, $252, $294, $336, $350 ($14 being released on the last $200
mortgage payment in the ninth year). As only $200 will be required to make the
last payment on the mortgage, $400 previously paid annually on the mortgage
will be released, increasing the total available by the end of the ninth year
to $750 (annual interest $350, plus $400) over and above what Miller might be
able to invest in life insurance now; and in the tenth year this will be
increased by another $200, a total increase of $950 in the ten years, since in
that year there will be no mortgage payment due.

It is probable that Miller's living expenses may be unavoidably increased in
the coming ten years. His child will be older. There may be other children. Yet
we may reasonably expect that a young man who is progressing as Miller is will
gradually increase his earnings sufficiently to provide for a normal growth in
expenses.

DESIRABLE PROGRAM

Miller's general attitude of conservatism encourages us to present life
insurance to him as a means of saving further sums of money for three purposes:
(1) to guarantee the home to his wife and child, in case he dies prematurely;
(2) to guarantee the payment of taxes, fire insurance and repairs, and to
provide for the living expenses for his wife and child, in case of his
premature death; (3) to guarantee the education of his child, and (4) to
provide an old-age income. With the home all paid for, a provision for living
expenses for his family, if he dies, or for himself and family, if he lives, is
ideal and completes perfectly the objective Miller and his wife have of being
independent in their own home.

Within a few years Miller will be financially able to carry a very substantial
life insurance program on a plan calculated to provide amply for his own old
age. He should, if possible, have a minimum program somewhat like the
following:

MINIMUM EVENTUAL PROGRAM

1. $ 5,000 cash to lift the mortgage.

2. 2,000 cash for final expenses and emergencies.

3. 10,000 payable in twenty installments certain,

about $652 a year (3%)

4. 14,000 at interest to yield about $600 a year at

an assumed rate of 4}^%, to pro. vide a life income for wife.*

Total $31,000

* Since Mrs. Miller is young, we recommend the interest income rather than the
continuous installment plan. The policy might well provide that she may have
the choice of either plan at any time after she reaches 45, or 50, years of age

The above program would clear the mortgage, pay outstanding bills and funeral
expenses, probably furnish a small emergency fund and provide a minimum of
about $100 a month for twenty years and approximately $50 a month thereafter as
long as Mrs. Miller lived, 3 per cent interest being guaranteed and assuming
surplus interest of per cent. But $31,000 is too large a program for Miller
just now. He should adopt it in principle and gradually build up to it. Ten
years from now it will be easy, if things work out as expected. But what shall
he do now?

PRESENT PROGRAM

Whatever insurance is taken now should be considered as the first step in a
more complete program to be worked out as soon as financial circumstances will
permit.

It would probably be best for Miller to choose his permanent plan of insurance—
ordinary or thirty-payment life or an endowment maturing at age sixty-five or
seventy— take $1,000 or $2,000 on this plan and then put as much money as he
can into ten-year term insurance. The idea of having a small amount of the
permanent insurance is that he will have made the beginning on the final
program of life or long endowment, to which the term insurance will gradually
be converted.

One thousand dollars of ordinary life would require a first deposit of about
$21, and thirty-payment life about $25, while a thirtyfive-year endowment would
require about $27. If Miller can save $260 for life insurance this would leave
about $235 for a ten-year term. At about $12.50 per $1,000, $235 would carry
about $19,000 of ten-year-term insurance. Miller would have a total of, say,
$20,000, with only $1,000 on the permanent plan, and $19,000 on the term plan.
But he should be "sold" originally on the permanent plan, and then on the use
of term insurance to initiate the permanent [insurance.

Twenty thousand dollars of ordinary life would mean a premium of about $420 a
year; the thirty-five-year endowment would take about $540. If Miller can put
$260 a year into the insurance now, the decreasing interest on his mortgage and
the dividends on his $20,000 of insurance will release enough money annually so
that practically all the term insurance could be converted to ordinary life or
long-term endowment within seven years, the time within which most companies
require^ conversion of ten-year term policies. (Some companies allow conversion
at any time within the ten-year period.) No doubt Miller's situation six or
seven years from now would permit him to complete his conversions. If not, he
could borrow enough on the converted policies to convert the balance of his
insurance within the time limit.

The plan of converting the term insurance into ordinary life or long-term
endowment should be worked out carefully. Separate term policies of $2,000 or
$3,000 each may be issued, so as to simplify gradual conversions. Each year the
$42 released by the decrease in mortgage interest would make it possible to
convert about $3,000. (Term rate $37.50+[$42 = $79.50.) In the ninth year of
this program, there will be only about $5 of interest to pay on . the final
$200 for four months. Thus, $37 of interest money will be available and as only
$200 is due on the mortgage instead of $600, there will be $400 more of
Miller's savings released, a total of $437. Therefore, by the end of the ninth
year Miller may add the balance of his total program of v$31,000, and more,
too, if it seems desirable for him to do so, without drawing on any funds in
excess of what he had previously paid on his home-purchase contract.

PLAN OF SETTLEMENTS

We should suggest a definite method of paying the $20,000 to Mrs. Miller.
Perhaps the following would be_advisable:

1. $ 5,000 for mortgage, payable in cash.

2. $ 2,000 for bills, etc., payable in cash.

3. $13,000 for living expenses, payable in monthly

income, fifteen years certain (3% basis) $81 X 13 = $1053 annually for fifteen
years.

There will also be surplus interest averaging (at \]/2 per cent) about $80 or
$90 a year. This plan would enable Mrs. Miller to pay outstanding bills and
funeral expenses and clear the mortgage, and would furnish her an income
averaging over $1100 a year for fifteen years, if we assume surplus interest
will continue at per cent. If Miller died in the first year, the fifteen-year
period would end when his child was seventeen years old. If he died three years
from now, the income would continue till the child was twenty years old. About
$2,000 more of the mortgage would then have been paid off and $2,000 of the
$5,000 mortgage policy could then be arranged under the fifteen-year
installment certain plan, increasing the annual income by $162, plus interest.
When the mortgage is paid off, the child will be ten years old, and no
insurance will be needed for this purpose. Eighteen thousand will then be
available for income, and would furnish installments of about $1,170 a year for
twenty years certain, plus surplus interest.

After the insurance is in force, the underwriter should confer with Miller
every year or two regarding any advisable modification in the settlement
provisions. As the need for mortgage protection grew less and his child became
older, a different settlement might be advisable. As soon as possible a
settlement should be arranged providing at least $25 or $30 a month as long as
Mrs. Miller lives, with additional limited installment income to increase her
income to about $100 a month until the child is 18 or 20 years old.

Term insurance is not to be sold with the idea that it is a satisfactory
substitute for permanent insurance. But, in such a situation as this, it is
often advisable as the introduction to a permanent plan. Without it, Miller
could probably not afford over $10,000 or $12,000 of insurance. The plan
suggested above will, in case of Miller's early death, free Mrs. Miller from
debt, give her the home paid for and provide about $100 a month until her child
is through school or even college; that is, if Miller should die within ten
years—before the child is twelve years old. In order to provide similar
protection, if he should die after the child is twelve years old, i.e., after
the expiration of the term insurance period and to assure permanent provision
for his wife. Miller must carry out the plan to convert to whole life or
longterm endowment within seven years (in some companies within ten years).

Good service to Miller will require very careful handling of his term
insurance. As has already been mentioned, the underwriter should, first of all,
arrange thej$19,000 of term insurance in small policies. A $2,000 policy should
be marked "to provide cash for immediate expenses." Another $2,000 and a $3,000
policy, or two $2,000 policies and one for $1,000, should be marked "to pay the
mortgage." The others should be marked "for income," and the income settlement
should be arranged without delay. The agent should have a term-conversion file,
and a card for each of Miller's term policies should be prepared and filed in
such a way that it will automatically come to the agent's attention at a proper
interval before the conversion date previously selected. The permanent plan
should be thoroughly sold to Miller at the outset, so that he will always think
of the term insurance in its true light— as initial term insurance.

If both the agent and Miller live to the ninth year, the agent should endeavor
to complete the original plan of at least $31,000 to furnish an income
sufficient to provide

for Mrs. Miller and the child until the child's education is complete, and to
provide a reasonable monthly life income for Mrs. Miller.

Term insurance—even as a means of initiating a program of permanent
insurance—would probably not have been advisable for John Brown.

FOR IMMEDIATE ACTION

The beginner will probably find it advisable to sell first $1,000 or $2,000lto
pay final expenses and $5,000 to cover the mortgage. With $6,000 or $7000
placed for these purposes, he may then take up with Miller a more extended
program, to be added at once or to be adopted gradually.

If it seems doubtful that Miller will adopt so large a program as the one
suggested, it would be better to place as much insurance as he can afford to
carry on a life or endowment plan.

VIII

PETER DALE—AN AVERAGE CASE

iHE following example is typical of

A many cases seen by the life insurance agent every day, in that only a small
amount of information is available. Yet, even these few facts are sufficient to
suggest very important needs—perhaps the most important ones in this kind of a
situation.

Picture—Peter Dale, thirty-five years old, married; has a son ten years old and
a daughter seven. Is head of a department in a large store—earns $3,000 a
year—occupies a small house which he inherited from his mother— has saved only
about $500 in Liberty Bonds— carries $1,000 of life insurance.

Since the information is quite limited, there is no item which suggests any
need in connection with a plan or interest of which we may assume Dale may
already be thinking particularly.

However, it is easy to see the following needs in this case:

1. Cash for final expenses—accumulated bills for groceries, light and gas,
telephone,

[graphic]

Needs.

household and other current expenses for two or three months, doctors' bills
and funeral expenses and, perhaps, a cemetery lot; also for emergencies.

2. Money for living expenses for his wife and children for as long a period as
he can afford, especially while the children are young.

3. Both children should receive a highschool education. Perhaps he will want
them to go to college or take a course in a business or vocational school.

4. Dale has not been thrifty. He needs a system of compulsory saving. Probably
he would not have saved what he has, if it had not been for the campaign for
Liberty Bonds.

5. His prospects for largely increased earnings do not seem to be particularly
good. He should plan to accumulate an old-age fund.

6. There is a possibility of his becoming totally and permanently disabled and
he may well provide against this contingency.

HOW MUCH CAN DALE SAVE?

The following United States Treasury budget for a family with an income of
$3,000 a year was shown on page 83, but it is reproduced here for convenience.

[merged small][merged small][table]

Examining the column for a family of four, we see that if Dale followed this
budget he would save $40 a month or $480 a year. It will be all the easier for
him to do this, since he owns his home and the cost of his rent will be only
the expenses for taxes, fire insurance and upkeep.

No doubt, in view of his failure to accumulate much money, it would be
advisable for Dale to put all he can save into life insurance. This plan would
give him a voluntary-compulsory system of saving regularly. It would have the
double advantage of guaranteeing protection for his family in case of his
premature death, and also of guaranteeing that when it came time for him to
retire from business, or at least to decrease his activities, he would have the
money he had saved. Investment of his savings in life insurance will furnish
the safety which he requires. As his margin of savings is not very large,
safety is a more important consideration than profit. Life insurance will
afford an increase in his funds commensurate with a high degree of safety,
while furnishing the protection he needs for his family.

Perhaps Dale will not be willing to~put aside $480 a year; yet he should do so.
If he saved this amount, he might object to investing all of it, or even most
of it, in life insurance. However, the amount of life insurance which an annual
premium of $480 would carry (about $18,000 or $19,000 on the ordinary life
basis, participating) would be none too great to pay for his family's living
expenses, if he should die before his children are grown. At 5 per cent,
$19,000 would yield an income of only $950 a year.

Some Recommendations.

Suppose that Dale would invest $400 a year in life insurance and deposit $80 in
the

savings bank for an emergency fund. What recommendations should we make?

(1) The $500 Liberty Bond and his present life insurance of $1,000 should be
used to provide cash at death to pay bills and funeral expenses.

(2) Four hundred dollars would carry $15,000 or $16,000 of participating
ordinary life insurance—say, $16,000—and about $13,500 on the thirty-payment
life plan or endowment maturing at age seventy; and this insurance should be
used to provide for the family's monthly expenses. Non-participating rates
would, of course, be less for a certain number of years. Continuous premium
endowment maturing at seventyfive might be substituted for the ordinary life
policy, the difference in premium being very slight. It is quite possible that
Dale could be more easily interested in an endowment maturing at age 65. A
participating 3 per cent premium of $400 would pay for nearly $12,000 of
insurance on this plan. The old age provision would probably make a strong
appeal. Yet, if he will invest $400 in endowment maturing at 75 or in ordinary
life, this would probably be better for his family and, therefore, in the main,
for him.

(3) The insurance is not sufficient to furnish an adequate life income to Mrs.
Dale, either on the interest plan or the continuous installment plan. At per
cent the interest income would be about $720 a year. Assuming Mrs. Dale to be
between thirty and thirtyfive years old, if Dale died within the next few
years, each $1,000 would provide, on the continuous installment plan, a
guaranteed income of about $45 a year for twenty years certain and for life, or
about the same as the interest plan. But there would be surplus interest,
starting at about $10 and gradually declining, throughout nineteen years,
averaging perhaps about $5 a year per $1,000 of insurance. Beginning at about
$880 and decreasing a few dollars annually to about $720 at the end of twenty
years, $16,000 would provide an average of about $800 a year for twenty years
certain. This average is on an assumed surplus-interest basis of 13^ per cent.
The guaranteed annual income thereafter would be about $720. Since Mrs. Dale is
a young woman, the interest plan would be recommended if the insurance were
somewhat larger, with the privilege of changing to the continuous installments
after age forty-five or fifty. The difference of $160 year in the beginning
between the interest income and the installment income might be a very
important consideration, especially as there are two children. Yet neither of
these plans seems to meet the situation. Even $880, the probable initial income
on the installment plan, is not large enough.

(4) The children are young, the boy ten years old and the girl seven. If
possible, the boy should be free to pursue his education at least until he is
eighteen or twenty, and the girl until she is twenty or twenty-two. If Dale
should die the first year, the boy should have protection for about ten years
and the girl for about fifteen years.

(5) With these facts in mind, let us see if we can work out the income from
$16,000 in such a way as to meet the requirements of the case, by arranging a
maximum installment during ten years with a smaller income until the end of
fifteen years, followed by a still smaller income to continue as long as the
wife lives.

SUGGESTED PLAN OF SETTLEMENT

Annual
Income

$ 2,000 to be paid on limited installment plan,

ten years $ 226

$ 4,000 to be paid on limited installment plan,

fifteen years 324

$10,000 to be paid on continuous installment

plan, twenty years certain, about.... 450

Total guaranteed annual income for 10 years... $1,000 Monthly payment $83.33 If
the surplus interest rate is 1% per cent there will be an additional income of
about $170 the first year, the surplus interest gradually decreasing. The total
first year's income would be about $1,170, and there would be a gradual
reduction from year to year for ten years.

Assuming death to occur in the first year of insurance, at the end of ten years
the boy will be twenty years old, through high school, and earning his own
living. The guaranteed income to the mother will be reduced in the eleventh
year from $1,000 to $774 ($1,000$226), or $64.50 a month. The surplus interest
on the $2,000 will cease and the interest on the balance will be materially
reduced. The daughter will then be seventeen years old, almost through high
school. Five years later, at the end of fifteen years from the time of Dale's
death, the daughter will be twenty-two years old, her high school education
completed and the mother's guaranteed income will be decreased from $774 to
$450 ($774-$324), and this will be paid as long as she lives, but with no
surplus interest after the installment-certain period has expired. It will be
at least enough to pay Mrs. Dale's board.

(6) It is quite possible that Dale may live to, say, age sixty-five, thirty
years longer— at which time it might be necessary for hivn to retire, or, at
least, to do less work. What would this insurance do for him at that time? The
cash value per $1,000 of ordinary life (either 3 per cent or per cent reserve)
would be over $500 or more than $8,000 for the entire $16,000. This sum he
could withdraw in whole or in part, if he then needed the money more than the
insurance.

If he takes thirty-payment life, the policies will be paid up at sixty-five and
the cash values of $13,000 insurance will then amount to about $9,760.

The endowment at 65, say $12,000, would pay $12,000 at maturity—age 65.

On the accelerative plan the ordinary life (participating) may be matured as an
endowment, comparing quite favorably, as to the combination of net cost and
maturity with the long endowment policies; but, of course, no maturity date can
be guaranteed at the outset, as is the case with endowment policies.

(7) Suppose that Dale should become totally and, presumably, permanently
disabled: (a) He would have no more premiums to pay, no matter how long he
continued to be totally disabled. (6) In addition, under some contracts he
would receive a life income of $160 a month (1 per cent a month basis)

as long as he lived, assuming that the $1,000 he already has does not contain
the disability provision. At his death the original insurance would be paid to
his beneficiaries as he might have directed.

If long endowment were used instead of ordinary life, the disability income
would, in some companies, be paid only to the maturity of the endowment, which
would then be paid in full to Dale. Or, Dale could have the company hold the
proceeds and pay him an income as long as he lived, with certain beneficial
interests to his family.

Non-participating premiums are, of course, less for a certain number of years
and 3% per cent values are less than 3 per cent values quoted on the life
policies. Endowments mature for their face at a given time on either interest
basis.

[ocr errors]

A YOUNG CHEMIST, WHO HAS NO DEPENDENTS

THE following interesting and typical case of a young man without dependents
was found in the Gold Book of the Eastern Underwriter of September, 1921. Just
such young men are being solicited, particularly by the younger agents, all
over the country every day.

Picture—A young man twenty-two years of age—out of college one year and now
working as assistant chemist in a steel mill, has no dependents, parents well
to do, but not wealthy, has not saved anything since leaving college, although
his salary has been sufficient for him to save at least $25 a month.
Appreciates the value of insurance for those who have dependents, but cannot
see his own need for it.

Following our practice of seeking first some present interest of the prospect
which may suggest a way in which he may most readily comprehend that life
insurance may be useful to him, let us see what responsibilities and interests
this young man has. He has no dependents to care for. He is not married. His
parents are well-to-do. Perhaps in our interview with him we may discover that
he is engaged to be married, although he is only twenty-two years old. So far
as we know he has no debts. He has never saved any money, so he has not been
greatly interested in saving; yet it is barely possible that he may think of it
now. He believes in insurance for persons with dependents. He can afford to set
aside $25 a month in savings. Perhaps we can persuade him to use life insurance
as his saving medium, for we can make the double appeal through savings and
life insurance.

He is assistant chemist in a steel mill. The "picture" tells us nothing about
his character, whether he is industrious and ambitious or not. Yet it is fair
to assume that the one responsibility which this young man has and in which he
feels a keen interest, is his business progress. No doubt he is anxious to get
ahead, to make good in the eyes of his employers, so as to secure promotion.
This he feels as a need and he will probably be interested in anything that
will help him to win the approval of his employer and thus improve his business
prospects.

Can life insurance help him in this direction? Recently a student at Carnegie
Tech told the author the following story: "An inspector of a surety bond house
was making a survey of the personnel in the financial department of a very
large concern. Among other steps, he took the time to go over the "history"
cards of all these employees, in order to learn what their previous experience
had been and to note any items of information which might give some insight
into each employee's character. Every now and then the inspector would throw
aside a card. After he had thus separated a number of the cards from the file,
the representative of the concern (who was also the student who told this
story) asked why these cards were being laid aside. "Because," said the
inspector, "those men carry life insurance. Our experience has taught us that,
as a rule, a group of men whose lives are insured is a pretty good one. They
certainly have a sense of responsibility, and are doing something to guarantee
their obligations. They are saving regularly. Usually they are less extravagant
in their habits than a group of men who don't carry insurance, because they are
saving. In making a detailed inspection we shall not go any further with your
employees who carry life insurance. Moreover, they have been inspected by the
life insurance companies, and life insurance companies are careful as to whom
they insure."

Approval of Employers

It is obvious that life insurance will give this young assistant chemist an
advantage in the eyes of his employer. Ask any employer what he thinks of the
young unmarried man who carries life insurance, and you will find that he has a
better opinion of such a young man and considers him a more desirable employee
because of his life insurance.

Also an employer likes to know that his employees are laying aside money for a
rainy day and for the future. Almost every firm of any importance is called on
from time to time to assist an employee who is financially embarrassed because
of some emergency, such as a long illness or an operation, or the necessity of
helping some member of his family. The employer knows that employees who are
accumulating savings accounts are not likely to become a charge on the company
in such emergencies, that they are preparing to stand on their own feet when
things get wobbly, instead of leaning on their employers for support. Then the
employer is all too familiar with the case of the employee who dies and leaves
a widow and children unprovided for. Many firms feel it their duty

to give a little help in such cases; but as a rule what seems a generous
contribution on their part is not really enough to go far, and they know it.
Sometimes they pay the funeral expenses and other pressing bills. An increasing
number of employers are using group insurance to protect themselves, as well as
the families of employees, in such cases. They would feel better satisfied with
an employee who, they knew, was preparing himself for financial emergencies by
saving his money and carrying life insurance. If the employee is young and
unmarried, the employer is none the less glad to see him have his life insured.
He knows that the young man will probably marry soon and that it will be harder
for him to learn to save after he is married, because of his increased
expenses, unless he happens to have an unusually thrifty wife. Also the
employer knows that the young man who is careful and foresighted in his
personal affairs is more likely to be careful and foresighted in the affairs of
the firm. Personal thrift induces habits of thought and conduct which may
affect favorably all a man's actions, both in his own affairs and in those
which concern others.

Since an employer estimates a young man's value to the firm partially upon his
habits of thrift and foresight, then it should be obvious to the young chemist
that saving money and carrying life insurance will make him a better man in all
those relations of life in which selfcontrol, care and foresight are required.
The spendthrift exercises little or no self-control in one of the fundamental
things of life. Of course, money in itself is nothing. But the right use of
money means much. The young man who saves is, through self-control, building
for himself a position in which he may later control many different things—a
business, better education, enjoyment of the greater values of life, even the
opportunity to be charitable and generous where gifts will do the most good.
Saving develops careful habits, because saving requires careful spending. The
spendthrift is likely to be careless in many things, for he has developed a
habit of carelessness in one of the fundamentals of life.

LIFE INSURANCE PROVIDES AN ESTATE

This young man has no estate. Life insurance is an estate, purchased on the
longtime installment plan with a guarantee that unpaid installments will be
canceled at death. It is a remarkable thing that, without a dollar, the young
chemist may at once, by signing an application (to be approved by the company),
and making the first installmeut payment, become the owner of an estate which
under certain conditions may do as much for him as an estate of equal amount
and composed of first-class real estate, stocks and bonds, which a wealthy
father might have left nim. Every man needs an estate. The man who has no
estate is in the same situation as the savage, in one sense, i. e., he is
living from day to day. Even though he earns thousands of dollars every year,
if he has accumulated no estate he is, in a very real sense, living from hand
to mouth; and in case of death, total disability or old age, will be no better
off, practically speaking, than the improvident savage in similar situations.

Life insurance makes it possible for the young man who has not yet lived long
enough to build an estate through accumulated savings to possess an estate
which in certain important contingencies will accomplish just as much as an
estate of equal amount accumulated by a man sixty years old over a period of
thirty years of frugal living and careful saving.

Thrift develops character-habits which appeal to substantial people. The young
man who saves always commands the respect of superior people. Those who would
condemn the thrifty young man are almost sure to be persons whose opinion in
most matters would not be worth while and whose recommendations would not carry
much weight. Good business men, bankers, rich men would almost unanimously urge
the young man to save; their opinion is worth while. The spendthrift, on the
other hand, does not inspire respect in the minds of substantial business men.
They do not expect that the spendthrift will have self-control, will be careful
and foresighted.

EMERGENCIES AND OPPORTUNITIES

There are other practical reasons why the young chemist should take advantage
of the opportunity to save money on the life insurance plan. The average young
man is not able to meet emergency demands which come to everyone sooner or
later. He might have a long illness or some other emergency might arise in
which he would require more money than he is earning from week to week or month
to month. An illness might not only entail an accumulation of expenses, but it
might result in a loss of income. If he has no surplus funds he may be obliged
to go in debt.

Again, he should be prepared to take advantage of a good business opportunity.
The man who has funds or security at such a time has a chance to start in
business for himself or to make a business investment. A life insurance policy
has cash and loan values. Moreover, the policy has collateral value and
occasion might arise when the assignment of the policy to a creditor or to
someone willing to employ him in some undertaking might secure him an unusual
opportunity.

GRATITUDE TO HIS PARENTS

The young chemist's parents have probably done much for him. No doubt they paid
for his education and have assisted him in many other ways. Even though they
have no need of his help, he would like to feel that, if he died, his current
debts and funeral expenses would be paid out of his own estate. Besides, he
would take great satisfaction in the thought that, in event of his death, he
would leave some estate to his parents or, perhaps, directly to his mother. She
would always be very happy to think that her boy had thought of her and wanted
to leave her all he could.

HE WILL PROBABLY MARRY

He realizes, too, that he will probably marry. The average young man marries at
27 or 28 years of age. The chances are that he will be married in only a few
years, that he will become a father and have all the obligations of a married
man. It is wise to

begin to provide against these almost certain responsibilities.

BUYING NOW MEANS SAVING

He will save money by insuring now instead of waiting until he is married. A
young man insuring at twenty-five years of age will at the end of a given
number of years have an advantage over the man who waits until he is thirty or
forty. For example, a young man who is twenty-five years old buys a
twenty-payment life policy of $10,000 at a non-participating rate of $225.30.
At the age of thirty he buys another twenty-payment life policy for $10,000 at
the rate of $247.10. At fifty, when the second policy becomes paid up and has a
cash value of $5,084.90 (3^2 Per cent), the policy which he bought at age
twenty-five has the same cash value, although [the total premiums on the age
twenty-five policy amounted to $4,506 against $4,942 on the age thirty policy.
Moreover, he has had insurance protection for $10,000 five years longer under
the first policy than under the second one.

Again, if the young chemist thinks it would be better to wait until he is
married before insuring, he should remember that even young men may become
uninsurable. If he should wait five years and then be rejected for insurance,
he would never cease to regret his procrastination, which had deprived his wife
and children of protection. Prudence and foresight demand immediate action.

Needs.

1. Habit of saving and thrift.

2. Approval of employer and substantial people.

3. An emergency fund.

4. Capital for business opportunities.

5. An estate for his own future and the future of dependents.

6. To show gratitude to his parents.

7. Payment of his final expenses.

8. To save money by buying now rather than waiting.

The prospect can save $300 a year. We might recommend that he select an
endowment maturing about sixty, or a twenty- or thirty-payment life policy. The
ordinary life is not nearly so attractive to the average young man situated as
he is. The annual deposit on the twenty-payment life or the thirty-five-year
endowment at age twentytwo would be between $26 and $27 per $1,000, while the
thirty-payment life and the fortyyear endowment rate would be about $23 or $24
(3 per cent participating policies); nonparticipating rates, $5 or $6 less at
the start. He could carry $10,000 or $11,000 twenty-payment life or
thirty-five-year endowment and $12,000 or $13,000 on the thirty-payment life or
the forty-year endowment plan. Perhaps it would be wise to recommend a
forty-year endowment or an endowment at sixty, with the idea of proposing life
insurance as one of his chief investment plans. Yet he may prefer a
limited-payment plan, which usually makes a strong appeal to young men.

We should finally (perhaps after placing a certain amount of insurance) work
out a more extensive program, stressing the value of life insurance as a
permanent investment medium. For instance, it would be a splendid idea if the
young chemist would now make up his mind that, when he is sixty years old, he
will have $50,000 absolutely guaranteed, and gradually increase his savings and
invest from year to year in additional policies maturing at age sixty. Here
would be a worth-while investment program, definite, safe and unquestionably
more certain of accomplishment than any other he would ever adopt. If he begins
it now, in a few years he will have $50,000 of life insurance protection and be
on the sure road to a snug fortune of $50,000 in cash.

[ocr errors]

RICHARD DIGGS—A PROGRESSIVE MANUFACTURER

THIS case was taken from the "Life Insurance Clinic" of Life Association News, 
page 375, February, 1922. The prospect had no name, so we christened him
Richard Diggs. Though the analysis may seem to involve a good many
considerations, this case is, in fact, no more complicated than thousands of
others which are met by our underwriters every day.

Picture—Prospect, aged thirty. Married, three children, two girls and one boy,
all under six years of age. President of manufacturing concern and owns 51 per
cent of stock. Capital stock paid in, between $50,000 and $60,000. Sole income
from business is about $10,000, being salary and dividends. Owns $9,000 home
mortgaged for $6,000. Owes bank personally about $10,000 for stock in business.
Business is on a good paying basis and not in debt except for $25,000 on
$35,000 building which it occupies. Carries $55,000 life insurance on various
plans, $30,000 of which is payable to business.

It takes only a moment's reflection to decide that the interest which chiefly
absorbs Diggs' attention, energies and hopes at the present time is his
business, which we may assume is passing through a period of initial
development, although it is said to be "on a good paying basis."

This may be indicated by the large mortgage on the building, by the moderate
income of the president, [who is also the majority stockholder, and by the fact
that he has borrowed $10,000 from the bank to pay for his stock. The problem
which concerns the president particularly is to develop profits to a point
where the mortgage on the plant may be liquidated, the position of the company
rendered secure, and the dividends increased to a satisfactory rate.

So far as we may judge from the "picture," Diggs has no other estate, except
the small equity in his home. Therefore, his business is not only the source of
his present income, but it is the foundation of the estate he hopes to build
for his future. Frequently we see men who get their living from their business,
but who have, in addition, accumulated an estate in other investments. Such,
however, does not seem to be the case with Diggs. He is young and is probably
staking everything on his business, depending on its success, both for living
expenses during his active

years and for the support of himself and family in his old age.

PRESENT BUSINESS INSURANCE

That he recognizes the possibility of not living long enough to see his plans
succeed is evident from the fact that he already has a considerable amount of
life i insurance. Twenty-five thousand dollars is payable to his family and
$30,000 to the business. We do not know at whose instance the corporation
insurance was placed on his life. Possibly the minority stockholders pointed
out the weakness of their position in case of his death, the uncertainty of the
future management. They can't foresee who might be elected by the president's
heirs to succeed him. The minority stockholders might wish to sell out, if they
could not buy control of the company, and a substantial amount of cash would
strengthen the assets of the company immensely and make their stock more
valuable and more marketable. Or, the stockholders may all have realized that,
with Diggs out, the company might be embarrassed by demands from creditors for
cash, that the mortgagee might not be willing to extend the mortgage, and that,
even if it could be extended, their credit might be so weakened that it would
be only a question of time until the business would go into liquidation.
Whatever may have prompted their action, the company is carrying $30,000 on the
president's life.

INSURING VARIOUS STOCKHOLDERS

The protection of this business against possible losses resulting from death is
very important. We have no way of knowing whether this is a very close
corporation or not. If there are only two or three other stockholders, it might
be an excellent plan to have each of them insured for the benefit of the
company in an amount equal to the proportion of his holdings to the company's
total maximum indebtedness at any time. Thus, in case of the death of any
stockholder, a portion of the company's obligations could be at once retired,
which would strengthen the situation not only for the surviving stockholders,
but also for the family of the deceased.

Each stockholder might be insured for the amount of his stock and an agreement
could be made for purchase by the survivors of the interest of the deceased
shareholder.

Or, it is possible that the minority stockholders might prefer, and it might
seem to Diggs reasonable, to have a larger amount of life insurance carried on
his life instead of having the minority stockholders insured. The choice of
these alternatives will depend on the value of the various stockholders to the
company and the possibility of loss, in case of death, of some important
service previously contributed by the one who died. Suppose that there were two
minority stockholders: that Diggs' chief abilities were in organization and
sales; that one of the other stockholders was a strong financier whose
cooperation had been sought for his credit ability and his judgment in money
matters, and that the other was the technical man, through whom the company had
succeeded in developing very successful commodities. In such a case, as we can
easily see, it might be wise to insure all three of them. But if the two
minority stockholders do not contribute any unusually valuable service, it is
probable that all the corporation's life insurance should be on Diggs' life.

SUPPOSE DIGGS SHOULD DIE?

Against this contingency, it would be wise to recommend to him that the amount
of business insurance be increased. From the picture we cannot tell what the
situation would be if he should die to-day and the company should be forced
into liquidation. Fifty thousand dollars or $60,000 of capital was paid in. Ten
thousand dollars of this is probably in the equity in the building. The balance
is largely invested in machinery, raw materials, equipment, trucking and
shipping facilities, etc. No doubt, some of it has been spent in organization,
advertising, or other development expenses, and will be restored only out of
future profits. We have no idea how much cash there is on hand. At present
there are no debts, except the mortgage.

But Diggs' death might occur at a time when there would also be outstanding a
considerable amount of loans, borrowed for short terms, for raw materials or
new machinery and equipment.

Creditors for loans and trade creditors who had not yet received payment for
goods or services would demand settlement of their loans and accounts. Unless
the mortgagee were thoroughly satisfied with the security of the building, he
might also call for his $25,000. It is not at all improbable that there would
be an avalanche of demands for money which would overwhelm the business. (Such
a result has developed in thousands of similar cases.) The company might easily
be forced into liquidation, despite a promising outlook for future growth and
success.

At such a time there is especial need for two things: (1) Stability within the
organization; (2) confidence on the outside. In many cases the inability to
meet obligations promptly may undermine both the morale of the responsible
survivors and the confidence of creditors.

The $30,000 already carried on Diggs' life would be of great assistance in case
of his death. If the mortgagee should not demand his money, this sum might be
ample to protect the company's credit. But if he should require payment or
reduction of the mortgage, there might not be enough money left to tide the
company over a very difficult period. There would be only $5,000, if the
mortgage had to be paid in full, unless a new loan could be obtained promptly.
It would be wise to estimate the total possible demands for cash at Diggs'
death, including the mortgage, and arrange a total insurance of this amount. 
Such a plan would provide against a serious situation, so that, in all
probability, the company would have little or no difficulty with their credit
in case of Diggs' premature death.

IN CASE OF LIQUIDATION

Yet it is possible that even if there was" enough life insurance money to
satisfy all

creditors, the apparent future of the business might be such that, with Diggs
gone, the surviving stockholders, including his heirs, might deem it advisable
to close out the business. Assuming all indebtedness to have been paid with the
proceeds of corporation policies, what would be the stockholders' positions in
case of liquidation?

Indebtedness having been paid in cash, their assets would be the building,
$35,000 (?); machinery and equipment (?), bills receivable (?), raw materials
and finished products (?), and good will (?). No one can now estimate what the
net worth of the company would be. The building might, or might not, be worth
$35,000. Machinery and equipment would be second hand, raw materials and
finished products might bring good or poor prices.

If, immediately, or very soon, persons could be found desirous of continuing
the business, the company would have an excellent market for all its assets,
including good will, and the business might bring a fair price. Otherwise good
will would be worth nothing, machinery and equipment would go at a very low
price as secondhand goods, raw materials and finished products would have to be
sold as odd lots. Even the building might be sold at a sacrifice. It might not
be so well adapted to a new business as it was to the old one. General business
conditions might be such that it would be necessary to sell at a loss or to
hold for some time, at the expense of taxes, fire insurance and loss of
interest on the invested capital. If Diggs' heirs, owning 51 per cent of the
stock, should be very anxious for their money, it is probable that the business
would be sold promptly for whatever it would bring. If the general business
situation should be as it was in 1921, it is almost certain that the
liquidation value of assets would be relatively small. It has often been said
that men usually die at the wrong time. Thousands and thousands of men die in a
critical period of their business. If they could have lived a little longer,
they might have left things in good condition for those interested in the
business as well as for their families. Sometimes men die during a temporary
business depression, when a forced sale usually results in serious losses.

Unfortunately, it is not possible to know six months or a year in advance that
death will come on a certain date, and so most men die leaving their business
unprepared for the inevitable difficulties that follow.

How Much Insurance?

It is clear that complete protection of this company by means of life insurance
would require an amount of life insurance equal to the estimated loss that
might be suffered through a shrinkage of liquidated assets, in addition to the
amount of insurance necessary to pay off all indebtedness. Such protection
would enable the company to pay all creditors and to return to each stockholder
at least the par value of his shares of stock. In case the assets could be sold
at a good figure, the insurance carried as anti-shrinkage protection would be a
boon to all stockholders, for it would give them a profit on their original
investment.

STOCK CONTROL

There is another angle to the businessinsurance situation which should be
considered. Would Diggs really want his estate to control the company's stock
after his death? Men feel differently about this problem. Many men would much
rather have their wives or daughters sell the stock, or, at least, a part of
it, especially if they thought it would bring a good price. They know that
their beneficiaries have not the business experience and knowledge to manage
the company successfully. Their heirs would probably lose their own money as
well as that of their fellow stockholders. Sometimes, especially if the
majority stockholder thinks the minority stockholders deserve special
consideration, he may consider it only fair that the stock control should pass
to them. In such cases the insurance may be for the amount of an estimated
future valuation of the stock Under a special agreement, at the death of the
majority stockholder the insurance may be paid to a trustee. If the amount of
insurance is sufficient to pay for the stock, an exchange is made, the
insured's heirs receiving the money, while the minority stockholders get the
stock. If the value of the stock is greater than the amount of the insurance,
the difference must be paid to the trustee by the minority stockholders.

It is impossible to say what will be advisable in this case. Diggs has a son,
who is so young that no one can predict what his ability will be. Yet Diggs may
feel that he wants to build up this business for his son. In this case, it
would be his purpose to retain control and the minority stockholders would be
interested in protecting their interests. On the other hand, Diggs may feel
that the minority stockholders are contributing so much to the building of the
business that they should have at least 51 per cent of the stock at his death.
He might even want them to take over the entire business at a price and have
the proceeds left in a trust fund for his family. Only a thorough discussion of
the case with Diggs will make it clear how the business insurance should be
arranged.

A SPLENDID IMPRESSION

It is easy to imagine the effect that would be produced if, at Diggs' death,
the business community should be told: "You know Diggs has died. He was always
considered a good business man, but nobody really understood what a long head
he had. He had his stockholders carry $70,000 of insurance on his life. There
was a mortgage of $25,000 on their building. They have paid that. They owed
$10,000 at the First National Bank and $15,000 at the Riverside Bank. As soon
as Diggs died, the company notified the banks that these loans would be paid
immediately, and within a week the banks had their money. That made $50,000 in
all. They have $20,000 of the life insurance in cash and all debts are paid.
You can see that they are in fine financial shape. I understand the
stockholders have notified the banks that as soon as a new president is elected
he will be insured for $50,000.

"Besides, they say that Diggs had a loan of $10,000 at the bank against his
stock holdings. He carried personal life insurance to protect his stock. The
loan has been paid off and the stock released to his family."

"You scarcely ever see such a case. As a rule, at such a time, a company, and
an estate, are on the defensive, and need help. But Diggs had fixed things so
that the interests of all stockholders, including his family, were safeguarded
and creditors were satisfied at once.

"It doesn't matter so much now whom they elect as President, provided he is
levelheaded and has the full confidence of the Diggs family. Financially, that
company is out of the woods."

We can't say now how much additional corporation insurance we should recommend.
But having thought the case through, it is quite clear that we should begin by
asking Mr. Diggs some questions to make him think about the company's possible
maximum obligations and the present distribution of its assets. If he will
consider these points and assume what seems to him to be a fair valuation of
the shrinkage that would normally occur in case such a business were
liquidated, he will quickly see for himself what are the needs of his company
for further business insurance.

PERSONAL INSURANCE

Let us now consider Mr. Diggs' personal insurance situation.

He owes his bank $10,000 which he borrowed to complete payment on his shares of
stock in the company. It is possible also that the large mortgage on his house
($6,000 on a $9,000 property) was given for the same purpose. If his stock
holdings (51 per cent) are worth $25,500 to $30,600 (total stock estimated at
$50,000 to $60,000), his equity, in his shares is only $15,500 to $20,600.

Diggs has an income of $10,000. He and his family continue to live in a modest
home. Probably they are living economically so that the bank loan and the
mortgage may gradually be paid off. If Diggs lives long enough he will release
the stock at the bank and lift the mortgage on his house. If he dies, his wife
will be in a position to take up the stock, if she desires to do so—and which
she must do to retain control of the company—and to clear the mortgage, for
Diggs is carrying $25,000 of personal life insurance.

If Diggs should die soon, and Mrs. Diggs should use $16,000 of her insurance
money for these purposes, the balance remaining would be $9,000. It would
require a considerable sum to provide a proper emergency fund and to pay bills
outstanding at Diggs' death—hospital and doctors' bills, funeral expenses, and
perhaps the cost of a lot in the cemetery—possibly a total of $3,000 to $5,000;
to be safe, say $5,000. There would be only $4,000 of the insurance money left.
At 6 per cent net this would earn $240 a year, not more than enough to pay
fixed charges on the house, taxes and fire insurance, and the cost of upkeep,
painting, repairs and replacements.

In approaching Diggs on the subject of his personal insurance, let us assume
that the $25,000 is for the purpose of paying his final expenses and his
family's monthly bills, and that additional insurance should be taken to cover
the mortgage and the loan against the stock.

DISCUSSING DIGGS' PERSONAL SITUATION

"Mr. Diggs," we might say, "you have provided $25,000 of personal life
insurance for the benefit of your family. Have you ever considered just what
this insurance would do? The purpose of life insurance is to furnish money at
the time it is needed to settle bills which the beneficiary must pay. For
example, when a man dies, there are certain obligations and bills that must be
paid in cash.

The average man is probably sick for one, two or

three months during his last illness, and ordinary bills have accumulated for
two or

three months, say $1,000

Expenses of last illness for doctors, hospital, nursing or surgical operation,
say at least.. 700

Funeral expenses, say 1,000

Accrued income tax, say 400

There should be cash provided for unforeseen obligations of the estate, say
1,000

That makes a total of $4,100

Sometimes a man can think of other items to

be provided for—such as local taxes, due but

unpaid, say 200

And there should be a fund for emergency needs

of the family, say 1,000

These items all total $5,300

"Five thousand dollars wouldn't be too much for the average man, situated as
you and I are, to leave in cash, so as to prevent the sale of property in order
to pay bills and other obligations. In your case it might take even more. I
don't know. But assuming you would want to leave at least $5,000 in cash, there
would be $20,000 left (out of your $25,000 of personal insurance) to help pay
your family's living expenses.

"If you should leave this sum to your wife to invest, you would no doubt want
her to select conservative investments. In normal times 5 per cent or 53^ per
cent investments would be the kind you would probably prefer for her, since
they would, as a rule, be much safer than investments at a higher rate of
interest. But there would be taxes on your wife's investments which would
materially reduce the net amount which she would have to spend.

INCOME SETTLEMENT

"My recommendation is that you require the life insurance company to hold the
$20,000 on deposit* and pay Mrs. Diggs the interest in monthly installments.
The present rate which the company is paying is, say, 4^ per cent. Of course
only 3 per cent is guaranteed, but the company has paid 4^ per cent for many
years. Since this interest would be a part of the proceeds of your life
insurance, it would be exempt from the income tax and there would be no local

* Mrs. Diggs is young and the difference between interest on the principal and
on installment income with surplus interest would be so small that the
interest-income plan should be used. The policy might provide that when she
reaches forty-five or fifty it would be settled on the
twentyyear-certain-and-for-life plan, if she then so wished.

taxes on the principal. So the 43^ per cent interest (assuming this rate would
be continued) would be net—probably as high as the net rate Mrs. Diggs would
receive on high-grade securities. The safety of the life insurance plan would
far exceed the safety of personal investments. If Mrs. Diggs did her own
investing, she might, from time to time, re-invest some of the money and have
the same experience that the average man has, viz., lose a part of the
principal. Under the life insurance plan the principal is held in trust for
her, and she receives the income in monthly installments only.

"There is another great advantage under the life insurance income plan. If Mrs.
Diggs invests her own money, she will not be able to arrange her investments so
that she will receive the same amount of money every month. Interest payments
are made, as a rule, annually or semi-annually. She would have some fat and
some lean times of the year.

"Now, 4J^ per cent of $20,000 is $900. That would provide $75 a month. It
occurred to me that, as your family's minimum expenses will probably be
considerably more than this, you would, no doubt, feel that you would want to
increase the monthly income which the company would be obliged to pay Mrs.
Diggs to at least $100 a month."

Diggs thinks of the income his stock will produce. At 8 per cent it will
provide about $2,000 a year. But if the stock is sold at fifty cents on the
dollar, as might happen after his death, the invested proceeds, say, $12,500,
would not produce over $750 a year, at 6 per cent.

Although it is by no means certain that the stock will yield $2,000 a year
after Diggs' death, let us assume that it may do so. This added to an income of
$1,200 a year from life insurance would give a total of $3,200 a year.

We might say, "Mr. Diggs, $3,200 a year wouldn't be too large an income for
Mrs. Diggs and the children, would it? Assuming that you provide $1,200 a year
through life insurance and that the stock might yield $2,000 a year, we might
put it this way: Your wife and children would have $1,200 a year as a minimum
provision, whether the company continued successful or not. And it might not;
for its success to-day depends on your ability. With you out, who knows what
may happen? But if business continues to prosper and pays, say, 8 per cent or
$2,000, then your family will have $3,200 a year and be able to live in a
comfortable manner. But I am sure you will agree that it would be a source of
great satisfaction to you, when you consider the problems of your business, to
know that, no matter what happens, your wife and children will have at least
$100 a month.

"Your present insurance will provide $5,000 to guarantee prompt payment of your
final expenses without selling any property, and leave $20,000 to provide $900
a year, or $75 a month, at 4^ per cent. You need to add only about $6,700 more
to increase the interest income to $100 a month.

"To make your life insurance program complete, you will probably want to
consider also two other items. If your family are to derive the income from
your stock, they must own it, and you would want to have the stock held by the
bank as collateral released. A special policy of $10,000 will guarantee this.
Besides, you would want your family to have their home free of encumbrance. You
say your mortgage is $6,000. A special mortgage policy for $6,000 will leave
the home clear.

"The total amount of new personal insurance proposed under this program is
$22,700, $6,700 to raise the income to $100 a month, $10,000 to release the
stock, and $6,000 to guarantee payment of the mortgage."

PROGRAM OF PERSONAL INSURANCE

Following is an outline of the Minimum Program of Personal Insurance:

I.—Present Insurance.

(a) Payable in cash at death for immediate

needs $ 5,000

(6) To provide income of about $75 a

month at 4J^% 20,000

II.—New Insurance.

(a) To add $25 a month at (making

total of $100 per month) 6,700

(jb) To release stock by paying bank loan... 10,000

(c) To pay mortgage on home 6,000

Total of new insurance $22,700

Total of minimum insurance program.. $47,700

Premiums.

The annual premium for $25,000 of present insurance at, say, $20, Ordinary Life
$ 500.00

Premiums for $22,700 new insurance, Ordinary Life, at, say, $23 per$l,000
522.10

Total annual investment in life insurance premiums $1,022.10

Long-term endowment or thirty-payment life might be preferable to ordinary
life, and the premium deposits would not be much greater.

The above plan, which should be Diggs' minimum program, would be a great
improvement over his present one. But it does not go far enough. There is no
special provision for the education of the children.

If the company should fail, there might be little if any income in addition to
that from the insurance, and Diggs undoubtedly considers the education of his
children as one of the chief ambitions of his life.

FIGURING A BUDGET

Let us see whether it is possible for Diggs to carry a more substantial
insurance. His income is $10,000. Some of bis principal expenses may be
estimated as follows:

Interest on mortgage (at, say, 6%) $ 360

Interest on bank loan (at, say, 6%) 600

Local taxes 200

Federal Income Tax 400

Total $1,560

Add annual savings for present life insurance 500

Total $2,060

No doubt Diggs is paying off the bank loan gradually at $1000 to $2000 a year.
Say $1,500 1,500

Total to be deducted from income $3,560

Balance of $10,000 $6,440

We now face questions that are difficult to answer. Do Diggs and his family use
all this $6,400 or $6,500 for living expenses, or

has Diggs some other important obligations of which we know nothing. He may
expect to pay off more than $1,500 a year on the bank loan. We can only
speculate from this point on. The amount which Diggs can invest annually in
life insurance might be $500, $1,000 or $1,500, leaving a net income for living
expenses at $6,000, $5,500 or $5,000, respectively, plus the home, for which
the interest and taxes have already been dedupted.

POSSIBLE PROGRAMS

1. We have already shown an additional program based on $522.10 of new
premiums.

2. Assuming he can invest $1,000 in new premiums, i. e., still another sum of
about $500, what shall we recommend in addition to No. 1?

An additional $20,000 of ordinary life, thirty-payment life, or long-term
endowment would provide $5,000 to each of the three children for an educational
income to start at age eighteen and another $5,000 to add to Mrs. Diggs'
income. Until the children begin to receive their educational income, Mrs.
Diggs will receive interest at, say, 4% per cent on the entire $20,000—about
$900 a year, or $75 a month. This would give her a total income from the
insurance of $175 a month. As each child reaches eighteen, Mrs. Diggs would be
relieved of its support and it would begin to receive the installments of
$5,000 payable for four or five years. Mrs. Diggs' income would be reduced by
per cent on $5,000,then on $10,000,and finallyon $15,000; when the youngest
child reached eighteen. The income would, by stages, be cut down from $175
amonth, or $2,100 a year,to $1,875, $1,650 and $1,425 a year respectively.

3. If Diggs can invest new premiums of about $1,500 a year (still another $500)
we should recommend still another policy of $20,000 of ordinary life,
thirty-payment life or long-term endowment for the purpose of increasing Mrs.
Diggs' income to such an amount that he and she may both feel that, whether
their company was a permanent success or a complete failure, she would have
enough income to provide quite comfortably for herself and the children. This
$20,000 would, at 4J^ per cent, yield another $900 a year.

Only an interview with Diggs will give us any idea as to which is the most
reasonable new program for him to adopt. No. 1, as a minimum, is clear. It is
essential because it will provide $5,000 cash for final expenses, will pay the
mortgage on the home, pay off the stock loan at the bank and give Mrs. Diggs an
income of about $100 a month.

Summary of Suggested New Insurance Programs:

Additional Premiums about $522.10 $1,000 $1,500

Total new insurance

For income

For cash

Additional annual interest

income about

Interest income from $20,

000 of present insurance.

$22,700 $42,700 $62,700

6,700 26,700 46,700

16,000 16,000 16,000

300 1,200 2,100

900 900 900

Total interest income about $1,200 $2,100 $3,000 Reduction after children reach
eighteen 675 675

Mrs. Diggs' net income after children reach eighteen

Total premiums on present and new insurance about

Per cent of total annual gross income

$1,200 $1,425 $2,325 $1,000 $1,500 $2,000

10% 15% 20%

If his means permit, Diggs should adopt program No. 2, or at least enough of it
to provide $4,000 or $5,000 for the education of each child, interest being
payable to Mrs. Diggs until the children are eighteen years old.

If he can save 20 per cent of his income for life insurance, program No. 3
should be adopted. But it is highly probable that, if it were possible for
Diggs to save so much, he would use the money to pay off the loan at the bank,
so great is his interest in his business. Yet he is already a believer in life
insurance and an interview might reveal to the agent that program No. 3 should
be presented.

Program No. 1, the minimum, can probably be sold, if it is properly presented,
assuming the facts used in the above discussion are correct.

[ocr errors]

JOHN P. DREW—HEAD OF A LARGE FAMILY, WHO HAS SAVED AND LOST CONSIDERABLE MONEY

PERHAPS the reader's first reaction to the following case will be somewhat as
follows: "This is an interesting situation, but it is so unusual that it
doesn't seem to be worth while to study the case m such detail."

The case is indeed unusual, in that, nowadays, we don't find many men who have
as many dependents as Mr. Drew has. Yet in every community there are some men
who have just as many needs for life insurance and as great financial ability
as Drew. Ordinarily, we don't know much about them. Drew is a fictitious name,
but the man himself (a few details are changed in the picture, such as the
$25,000 of insurance already carried) has been known to the author for many
years. It was only accidentally that, one day at a club, Drew was prompted to
tell a bit of his story and to answer questions which gave the rest of it. He
is well insured on a plan somewhat resembling Program I below.

Every separate need as revealed in Drew's picture makes him, as it were, a new
prospect—i. e., a prospect for more insurance.

In every community there are men of large and varied responsibilities who would
carry much more substantial amounts of life insurance if competent agents would
learn their various needs and present plans to insure them.

Several of the most successful underwriters in the country have told the
writer, "The first thing I do in undertaking a new case is to sell it to
myself. I find out all I can about my prospect, analyze his situation, work out
what seems to me to be an essential life insurance plan and then sell myself on
it. If, when I get through, it seems to me that, in the prospect's place, I
would really need the insurance proposed, and if I am convinced that, from
every angle, the man can't afford to be without it, 1 can go to him with
confidence in myself and my plan, and assume that he must buy."

There are many men like Drew, who have various needs for life insurance and who
have the money to buy important programs, but who are carrying relatively small
policies, bought at various times from different agents who had not analyzed
the cases and first "sold themselves." Such men would in many cases have bought
large amounts, if some agent had had sufficient imagination and personal
conviction.

Take the case of Drew's invalid daughter. If an agent will put himself in
Drew's place and try to imagine as nearly as possible what Mr. and Mrs. Drew
think and what they say when they talk about this daughter's affliction, he
will find it easy to "sell himself on the idea" that Mr. Drew must make a
special provision for this daughter's future. To "sell ourselves" we must, in
our imaginations, be the "other fellow" and think the "other fellow's"
thoughts.

Of course, a beginner cannot, as a rule, manage a complete program for a "Drew"
case. Nor can most young lawyers handle large and complicated law cases. Yet,
even a beginner who has the right point of view can take up an individual need
in such a case with a fair chance of success; and he can continue to insure for
separate needs until he has worked out a complete program.

All about us are men who have needs for insurance that have never been
uncovered by life underwriters, with the result that these needs remain
unprotected, to the ultimate regret of everyone concerned.

Recently, in one of our large cities, the head of a nationally known
organization bought $600,000 of life insurance as the result of a careful
analysis of the post-mortem needs of his estate and the members of his family.
He already had $200,000, but the agent had made a careful study of his case and
worked out a specific amount for each separate need. This case was just as
"unusual" as the Drew case which follows, and it was possible to control it
only by thorough study and analysis.

Let those who hesitate to believe in the possibility or the wisdom of a large
program for Mr. Drew remember that sometimes they have been greatly surprised
to learn that a client with whom they had placed $20,000 or $30,000 of life
insurance has shortly afterward taken $100,000 or more through some competitor
who had more imagination, deeper conviction and greater courage.

JOHN P. DREW

Picture—Forty-five years old, married; has three children, a boy nine and two
girls, seven and five; the seven-year-old girl had infantile paralysis. Is
expert in optical research; a graduate of Johns Hopkins University and a Ph.D.
in physics from the University of Berlin. Has made valuable discoveries in
optics and invented various optical devices and methods of making lenses. Is
also expert in glass making. Is retained by one of the large glass companies at
a salary of $15,000 a year, and by an optical lens company at a salary of
$15,000 a year. Is now working on a process for reducing the brittleness of
glass which, if successful, will be patented by the glass company and will be a
very valuable asset to the company. Enjoys no royalties, as he is paid by both
companies on a salary basis. Lives in country house costing $30,000 with
mortgage of $15,000. Is not practical in financial matters; has saved a good
deal, but lost most of his money in war stocks and oil properties. He partially
supports his father and mother, his father earning about $1,200 a year, and
also takes care of a widowed sister and her two young children. Carries $25,000
of twenty-year endowment insurance, all over ten years old.

There are four things which strike us as being of immediate interest in
connection with life insurance in this case: (1) Mr. Drew has an unusually
large number of dependents and the question must often arise in his mind, "What
would become of all these dear ones if anything should happen to me?" (2) He
has lost what money he had saved. He has failed as an investor. (3) His elder
daughter is at least a partial invalid, which makes her the object of special
care and thought. (4) His employers are greatly interested in his living until
he has completed the investigation he is carrying on and has perfected a plan
for reducing the brittleness of glass.

PICTURING THE FUTURE

Let us consider Drew's personal interests first. The only estate he has now is
the $15,000 equity in his home and $25,000 of life insurance, a total of
$40,000. He must realize that this amount invested at 5 per cent will not
support his dependents in case of his death. He has tried to increase his
estate by investing his savings, but without success. Perhaps we can show him
that the surest and simplest way to provide an estate either for his old age or
in case of death is through life insurance. Let us first see what will be the
needs of his dependents after his death in order to determine what estate would
be necessary to furnish the required funds.

Immediately after his death there will be demands for cash to pay his final
expenses. Five or ten thousand dollars would probably not be too much for this
purpose.

If Drew expects his family to continue to live in the country house, they will
need the money to pay off the mortgage, which would require $15,000 of life
insurance. But if he thinks they should move to the city and live

in a more simple establishment, it might be better to let them sell the house
for whatever they can get, adding the $15,000 of insurance to the fund which
will produce income for living expenses.

There will also be a need for cash to pay Drew's income tax, for whenever he
dies there will be some due or accrued income tax to pay. It is possible that
he may eventually have a large enough estate, including life insurance, so that
there will be substantial inheritance taxes at his death; but that need not be
considered now.

After the cash requirements have been provided, his various dependents will
need money each month to pay living expenses. Later the children will need
money for their educational expenses.

If Drew lives to old age, he should have an independent income to support
himself and any members of the family who may still be dependent on him.

Drew's situation is somewhat unusual in that he has so many dependents. Yet we
occasionally see men who have assumed the support of several relatives in
addition to the care of their immediate families. Such men are usually very
generous and are glad to do all they can for those whom they are helping. Drew
has probably come to feel a real obligation for the support and education of
his sister's boys. If he lives, he will no doubt do everything within his power
to give them a good foundation for their futures. His sister, as well,as his
father and mother, will be well cared for during his lifetime.

Of course, he must realize that the more he does for the five persons whom he
supports in addition to his wife and three children, the less he can lay aside
for his own family's future and for his old age. It is, therefore, all the more
important that whatever investments he makes should be safe.

If he lives long enough, keeps his health, and continues to prosper as he has
in the past, he will be able to bring up his own children and his sister's
boys, care for his parents and sister as long as they live and then, if his
future investments turn out well, he will have the funds on which to retire and
live comfortably with Mrs. Drew and, possibly, the invalid daughter.

WHAT PRESENT INSURANCE WOULD DO

But if, prematurely, he should be taken away, what will be the situation of
those nine persons who now depend on him for support? Suppose he should die in
the next few years. His wife would receive the $25,000 of life insurance* now
in force. It would require a few thousand dollars to pay Mr. Drew's final
expenses, maybe $5,000 or $10,000. There would be the remaining $15,000 or
$20,000 and the equity in the home, perhaps $10,000 ($15,000 at the most), a
total not exceeding $25,000 or $30,000. Invested at 5 per cent net, this would
yield $1,500 to $1,750 a year. It is doubtful if Mrs. Drew would spend only the
income. The needs of the children, especially for their education, would be so
great that the principal would gradually be drawn upon, unless Mr. Drew should
leave the money in trust with a provision forbidding the withdrawal of any of
the principal. It is quite possible that at the end of ten years Mrs. Drew
would have little, if any, of the principal left, unless a part of it should
have been invested in a small home.

EDUCATION OF THE CHILDREN

Or, it is possible that Drew's children would not go to college. Seeing their
mother's situation, it is quite probable that they would refuse to accept the
money that would be required to pay the expenses of their education. They would
certainly finish high school, but might then secure positions in order to help
out at home—that is, the boy and younger daughter; and it might well be that,
on account of the invalid sister, the other two children would refuse to go to
college.

Drew would be greatly troubled, if he thought his children would be deprived of
a college education, for he enjoyed unusual privileges himself, not only a
four-year college course, but also post-graduate courses which prepared him for
his professional career. No doubt, the failure of his children to receive a
college education would seem to him a catastrophe. Because Drew had such a
splendid education himself, we may certainly assume that the education of his
children will strike him as being a very great need to be provided for.

And what of the others, his father and mother, and his sister and the two
nephews, in all of whose welfare he is now so deeply interested? The father and
mother would be obliged to make out as best they could with the $1,200 a year
which the father earns, as long as he is able to work. If he should become
incapacitated, what would he and his wife do? And what would Drew's mother do,
if his father should die?

It would probably go hard with the sister and her two boys if Drew should die
within the next few years. She would be obliged to go to work and it is quite
likely that she is not trained for any vocation, so that she could earn only
unskilled wages—not very much—and the kind of work she could get might be very
hard or distasteful to her. The boys would be obliged to leave school just as
soon as possible in order to earn their mite to help pay for their own food and
clothing. Their chances for the future might suffer very greatly.

THE INVALID DAUGHTER

We may feel sure that there is no other need for his protection that makes a
stronger appeal to Mr. Drew than the helpless condition of his invalid
daughter. As a rule, the condition of an invalid or defective child of any age
is worse than that of a baby. It is not only helpless; it is hopeless. And the
prospect of utter dependence during the child's entire life brings to its
parents a grief worse than almost any other. It isn't the child's present loss
which troubles Mr. and Mrs. Drew most. It is when they think of her future that
they are most depressed: She will never be able to do what other girls do. She
will never be able to join them in their sports and parties. Always she must be
different from other girls. The certainty that she will be an object of
sympathy, or even pity, makes Mr. and Mrs. Drew suffer.

Although she may be unusually intelligent, cheerful and companionable, the
thought comes to them that she will, in all probability, never marry. And she
may not be able to engage in any employment which might take the place, in her
life, of having children and making a home.*

What can they do to make her future as happy as possible? There is probably no
other problem that so often occupies their minds. Of course, they have thought
of her education and they plan to do all they can to give her every advantage.
If she shows any special talent they will see that she has the best possible
opportunities to develop it. Perhaps she may be unusually gifted in music or
drawing or writing. And one hope comes to them: if her talents are developed,
she may not only derive pleasure from her music or her painting or writing, but
she may even be happier than thousands of other

* The sale must first be made in the agent's mind. When he has so canvassed the
case in his thinking that he is convinced that, from every angle, the prospect
really needs the insurance, he is strongly fortified for the interview. This
sad yet truthful picture of our imagination helps us to see the importance of
our doing something to help Mr. and Mrs. Drew to provide adequately for their
daughter's future. Of course, we would not discuss these details. We would only
say that we know from our experience with fathers, situated as he is, that one
of their chief desires is to guarantee his daughter as happy and comfortable a
future as possible.

people who have two strong legs but no resources within themselves for keen
enjoyment.

Mr. and Mrs. Drew are undoubtedly willing to make great sacrifices for the sake
of this little daughter's future, for they feel her needs very keenly. Her
needs are theirs. Her loss is their loss, her suffering, their suffering; any
future happiness which they can provide for her will make them happy.

And no doubt Mr. Drew will be very much interested, if we talk to him about a
plan for guaranteeing that this daughter may receive a suitable education, if
he should die too soon, and for guaranteeing that, after her father's death,
she will have a monthly income as long as she lives, so that she may be
comfortable, independent of other people and happy.

THE OUTSTANDING NEEDS

The outstanding needs in Drew's case are:

(1) cash to pay all his bills due at his death;

(2) cash to pay income tax; (3) cash to pay his final expenses; (4) an income
for his wife's living expenses as long as she lives; (5) an income for his
invalid daughter's living expenses as long as she lives; (6) an income for the
living expenses of his other daughter until she is grown and also for life, if
possible; (7) an income for the living expenses of his son until he is grown
(and capital to start in a profession or business, if possible); (8) money to
pay educational expenses for all three of his children; (9) an income for the
living expenses of his sister until her children are grown and for life, if
possible; (10) money to pay educational expenses for his two nephews; (11) an
income to pay the living expenses of his father and mother as long as they
live; (12) if the other needs can be amply provided for, there might be a
provision for money to pay off the mortgage; (13) if Drew lives to old age, he
should have an income that will provide for his living expenses as long as he
lives, and take care of any dependents after he has enjoyed the income during
his old age; (14) if Drew should become totally and permanently disabled, he
will need a source of living expenses, as he has not yet built up an estate
that would support him and his family in such a circumstance; (15) eventually
there might be need for cash to pay inheritance taxes.

HOW SHALL HE INVEST?

What is the best course for Drew to pursue? How shall he invest his money?
Shall he divide his savings into two parts, an insurance premium fund and an
investment fund to place in stocks and bonds? Or, would it be advisable to put
his entire savings into life insurance?

Let us consider the matter in the light of his probable success in investments.
Drew has failed in his investments. He is the type of professional man who can
earn money but cannot invest it wisely. He has only the $15,000 equity in his
house and his endowment insurance, as the result of his lifetime savings. What
he put into other things is all gone and it is not improbable that he may buy
unsafe securities again, with the same result as in the past. He will probably
be susceptible to the persuasion of stock salesmen as long as he lives and has
any surplus money. Even if he should be induced to limit his investments to
bonds, it is quite possible that some day he would do what many others have
done, viz., sell his lowinterest bonds when some alluring stock was urged as an
unusual opportunity.

SAFETY THE ESSENTIAL THING

Being forty-five years old, Drew hasn't very many years left in which to
accumulate whatever estate he may create for himself and family. He can't
afford to take many more chances. It is perfectly clear that, in the future,
his investment slogan should be, "Safety first, last and all the time." There
is no other place where his savings will be so safe as they will be in life
insurance. Profits might be greater in something else, but no other investment
can compare in security. Irrespective of the question of protection for his
family, Drew should seriously consider life insurance as a safe place for his
money with a fair return of interest. Even highgrade bonds would not be so
safe. They might depreciate. And if they didn't, they would eventually mature
and the problem of reinvesting would bring with it new chances of loss.

Drew may object, as others sometimes do, that life insurance will not pay
annual interest or profits, as bonds and stocks do. However, after deducting
from fife insurance net deposits a fair allowance for the cost of insurance,
the life insurance investment yields a satisfactory increase in compound
interest. While there is no annual profit paid, the estate is growing all the
time, a certain amount of interest being added to it. This is, indeed, just the
kind of result that Drew should have. He is earning more than enough to pay all
his expenses with a margin of savings besides; and, even if he received
interest or profits from investments, this money should

not be used, but should be added to the estate. If Drew re-invested interest or
profits as he ought to, he would be doing just what would be done by the life
insurance company with the interest added annually to his life insurance
investment.

FORECASTING AN AMPLE PROGRAM

Out of his income of $30,000, Drew could undoubtedly save at least 25 per cent,
or $7,500. This would leave $22,500 to spend on his large number of dependents.
We should first see how much of this would be required for an ample life
insurance program. If less than $7,500 is needed for premiums, then we may
consider whether or not a balance should be put into other investments or added
to his life insurance estate.

For living expenses, there should be $5,000 or $6,000 for Mrs. Drew and the
three children, at least until the children are in college. Each of them should
have $1,000 to $1,500 a year during their college course. Drew's father and
mother will need from $1,200 to $2,400 a year, as he may be able to provide.
His sister should have from $1,200 to $2,400 a year. His nephews ought to have
$750 to $1,000 a year for college expenses.

To cover cash requirements at death, with sufficient margin to provide for
emergencies that may arise in such a large family, there should be at least
$10,000 payable in cash.

We shall not make provision for the mortgage, for the house is a relatively
costly one, too large for Mrs. Drew to maintain. The cost of carrying charges
would be so large, if she attempted to hold it some time for a good price, that
her income would be materially reduced. It seems better to increase her income
and let her sell the place for what she can.

TWO PROGRAMS

With these ideas in mind in regard to the details of a program, we may well
consider two types of program, since we are not sure what will be Drew's point
of view when we suggest that he invest $7,500 annually in life insurance. Will
he be chiefly interested in making his investment procure maximum protection
for his dependents, or will he feel that a reasonable minimum of insurance
should be secured, the balance of his $7,500 being reserved for investment
only?

The survivorship annuity is suggested for the parents, since, for beneficiaries
of advanced ages (particularly if the insured is young),this plan yields a high
income for the amount of premium invested. It has no cash values and adds
nothing to Drew's personal estate, but would serve admirably in such a case.

Program I

Annual Premiums

1. Present Insurance, $25,000—Twenty-Year

Endowment ten years old, (net) about.. $1,040

2. Survivorship annuity to parents of $1,200

each, about 400

3. $200,000 Ord. Life at about $30* per $1,000,

(net) 6,000

Total Premiums $7,440

Distribution of Insurance

1. Total insurance $25,000 plus $200,000. $225,000

2. Payable in Cash 10,000

3. Available for income purposes $215,000

Incomes Payable at Drew's Death. (Interest is assumed to be 4^ per cent.)

1. Interest on $30,000 to elder daughter

after age eighteen $1,350

2. Interest on $30,000 to second daughter

after age eighteen 1,350

3. Interest on $30,000 to son after age

eighteen 1,350

* Thirty dollars per $1,000 would probably be the approximate average
participating net cost for the first ten or eleven years. Of course, it would
be higher the first few years and lower afterwards. Also, $30 is an approximate
non-participating rate.

4. Interest on $80,000 to wife (perma

nently) 3,600

5. All of above interest payable to wife,

subject to reduction as each child be-
gins to receive the interest on $30,000

at age eighteen $7,650

6. Interest on $45,000 (three policies, one

of $37,000 and two of $4,000 each,
to sister with deduction of interest on

$4,000 as each son reaches eighteen.. 2,025

7. Survivorship annuity to father 1,200

8. Survivorship annuity to mother 1,200

9. Total income to beneficiaries at Drew's

death $12,075

Insurance to Be Written in Following Policies It is assumed that Drew's $25,000
policy will, at maturity, as an endowment, be left with the company, at
interest, to be paid eventually as a death claim.

1. $25,000—Twenty-Year Endowment, now in

force, for son.

2. 5,000—Ordinary Life to be used with En

dowment policy for son.

3. 10,000—Ordinary Life, payable in cash to

wife (or estate).

4. 30,000—Ordinary Life for elder daughter.

5. 30,000—Ordinary Life for second daughter.

6. 80,000—Ordinary Life for wife.

7. 37,000—Ordinary Life for sister.

8. 4,000—Ordinary Life for first nephew.

9. 4,000—Ordinary Life for second nephew.

Total $225,000

Also survivorship annuities for parents, two policies of $1,200 a year each.

Educational Incomes to Children and Nephews

As the son, and each daughter, reaches eighteen he or she will begin to receive
his or her income, the mother's income being reduced correspondingly. The
daughters will receive their incomes for life. The son will receive his income
until he is thirty years old, when $30,000 will be paid to him in cash. As each
nephew reaches age eighteen, a $4,000 policy will be paid to him in
installments over a period of four years, their mother's income being reduced
accordingly.

Permanent Incomes, after the children reach eighteen (assuming per cent
interest), will be as follows:

1. To Mrs. Drew $3,600

2. To three children ($1,350 each) (son's in

come to age thirty) 4,050

3. To sister 1,665

4. To father and mother 2,400

Total $11,715

Mr. Drew may wish to modify this plan in such a way as to give the invalid
daughter a somewhat larger income than the other children. Or, anticipating
that the invalid

daughter would always live with her mother, he may count on Mrs. Drew to
contribute from her own income any additional funds needed by this daughter.

Contingent Beneficiaries. The three children should be named contingent
beneficiaries of Mrs. Drew's policies, share and share alike; or, Mr. Drew may
feel that the invalid daughter should receive a larger share than the others.
The daughters' shares should be payable in incomes for life, the son's, in
income to a specified age, say, 30. At the death of any child, his, or her,
interest should probably be made to revert to the surviving children, share and
share alike.

Value of Policies and Income if Drew Reaches Age Sixty-five

At age sixty-five, Mr. Drew may, as his circumstances and his needs for life
insurance may then appear, use a part or all of the values of his policies for
the support of himself and family. Of course, the son will then be
selfsupporting, the younger daughter may be married or self-supporting or she
may still be dependent on her father. If the invalid daughter is still living
she will still be dependent on her father. Mrs. Drew may still be living. If it
seems wise to use all his policy values, they will provide as follows:

Endowment, matured at, say, fifty-five, but left with the company at interest
$25,000

$200,000 of Ordinary Life at $441 per $1,000

(3% policies) 88,200

Total cash value of all insurance at age sixty-five $113,200

At, say, per cent, $113,200 will pay Mr. Drew annually $5,094 and there will
still be $113,200 of principal which can be distributed at his death to his
various beneficiaries as he may direct. Or, if Mr. Drew is still earning a
satisfactory income and his health permits him to work, he may continue all his
insurance in force (the $25,000 endowment still being on deposit with the
company); or, a portion of his cash value may be used to purchase an annuity.
After the endowment matures, the income from the principal may be used to carry
additional life insurance or to apply towards payment of premiums on the above
program.

Total and Permanent Disability

By payment of a relatively small additional amount annually, Mr. Drew may
obtain the following advantages (up to the Company's disability limit on the
new insurance) in case he becomes totally and permanently disabled before
reaching age sixty (or sixty-five, according to company):

1. Waiver of premium: premiums falling due after he becomes totally disabled
will be waived.

2. Under some contracts a monthly income will be paid to him as long as total
disability continues.

Inheritance Taxes

If Drew adopts the above program, assuming that he will accumulate no more real
estate, or stocks and bonds, etc., that the equity in his home will be worth
$15,000, and that at least $40,000 of his insurance will be paid to named
beneficiaries, his estate will require cash to pay the Federal Estate tax on
life insurance in excess of $75,000, for which additional life insurance should
be provided.

Program No. II*

If it seems advisable to approach Mr. Drew from the point of view of maximum
income for his old age, the twenty-year endowment would be the policy we would
recommend, since it would mature at age sixty-five, and, considering the
quality of the security, would show a good profit on the excess of his deposits
over the cost of insurance for the average amount at risk during the endowment
period of twenty years. Some men,

* It will be better to study programs I and II at different times. If both are
read at the same sitting, they may prove confusing.

similarly situated, could be persuaded to carry more insurance for their
families on a plan that would provide a maximum old-age fund than they would be
willing to carry on the Ordinary Life plan; especially if they argued that most
of their savings ought to be invested in stocks, bonds and real estate. For
example, Drew might reason that with $6,400 of savings, over and above the
premium on his $25,000 endowment policy, he would do well to add only $100,000
of Ordinary Life at, say, $3,000 a year for premiums, and put the balance of
$3,400 into stocks and bonds. If he favored such a plan, surely it would be
wise to propose that he put $400 a year into Survivorship Annuities for his
parents and invest $6,000 a year in twenty-year endowment. At $45* per $1,000
net annually, $6,000 a year would provide $133,000 of new insurance. This
would, of course, be much better for his family than $100,000 of Ordinary Life;
and there are many cases in which professional and salaried men can be induced
to provide more insurance on an endowment plan maturing at sixty or sixty-five
than on the ordinary life plan.

* Forty-five dollars per $1,000 would probably be the approximate average
participating net cost for the first 10 or 11 years. Of course, it would be
higher the first few years and lower afterwards. Also, $45 is an approximate
non-participating rate.

Drew's investment experience has been so unfortunate, that it would be
decidedly to his advantage to invest the bulk of his savings in twenty-year
endowment insurance.

Greater Old-Age Income Furnished

The $133,000 of new endowments and the $25,000 already in force make a total of
$158,000. Assuming 43^ per cent, the oldage income would be about $7,100 a
year, or about $2,000 more than the total values would provide under Program I.

In event of death, Program II (with $10,000 payable in cash) would furnish the
same incomes to Drew's father and mother as Program I, but there would be only
$148,000 for incomes to his other dependents instead of $215,000 as in Program
I. The income on $148,000, assuming 43^ per cent, would be about $6,660. This
could be increased somewhat by settling the insurance that would be permanently
payable to Mrs. Drew and Drew's sister on the continuousinstallment plan.
Assuming that they are approximately forty years old, if Drew died the first
year, each $1,000 of insurance would pay about $50 a year for
twenty-yearscertain-and-for-life (3 per cent policies; somewhat more on a 3^
per cent basis) plus an average surplus interest of $5.00 or $6.00 a

year per $1,000 for the period certain, if the surplus interest rate is 1^ per
cent. There would be no advantage in placing the children's incomes on an
installment basis, since at the younger ages for beneficiaries the installment
is only about $40 per thousand (plus surplus interest), the interest also being
smaller for younger beneficiaries, as the commuted values are smaller.

Details, Assuming Drew's Death in First Year of Insurance, Total Interest of 4%
per Cent and Surplus Interest at 1% per Cent (3 per

Cent Policies).

1. $10,000 payable in cash to Mrs. Drew.

2. $60,000 continuous installments, twenty

years certain, to Mrs. Drew, average
annual income about $3,300

3. $20,000 continuous installments, 20 years

certain, to Drew's sister, average about 1,100

4. $5,000 at interest (4J^%) to sister till sons

reach eighteen 225

5. $21,000 to elder daughter from age eighteen

($1,000 reserved for installments for

four years); $20,000 at ±%% interest... 900

6. $21,000 to second daughter from age eight

een ($1,000 reserved for installments for

four years); $20,000 at 4J^% interest. .. 900

7. $21,000 to son from age eighteen ($1,000

reserved for installments for four years);

$20,000 at 4H% interest 900

8. Survivorship Annuity to father 1,200

9. Survivorship Annuity to mother 1,200 The Widow's Income

Mrs. Drew's income includes interest on her children's policies, $21,000 each,
until they are eighteen years old. Her total income would start at about
$6,400. After all the children reached eighteen it would be something over
$3,000 until the end of the twenty years certain, and would continue at about
$3,000 for life. Of course, if Drew died several years after taking the
insurance, when Mrs. Drew is fifty or sixty years old, the guaranteed annual
installment would amount to considerably more (about $5 or $6 per $1,000 more
at age fifty and $10 or $12 per $1,000 more at age sixty). If Drew died the
first year, his sister's income would start at about $1,400, including interest
of $225 (43^ per cent) on $5,000 until her boys reached eighteen years. As each
became eighteen years old, he would begin to receive installments of $2,500
payable over four years. Thereafter, the sister's income would gradually be
reduced as the surplus interest decreased. After nineteen years, it would be
about $1,000 a year for life, no further surplus interest being payable (and
only a very small amount in the twentieth year, if monthly interest were
allowed).

Interest or Installments? At 4J^ per cent Mrs. Drew would receive, on the
$60,000, only $2,700 a year, as against an installment income starting at about
$3,600 (assuming Drew's death in the first year and that surplus interest is 1^
per cent) and averaging about $3,300 a year through the twenty year period
certain, being about $3,000 thereafter for the balance of her lifetime. Under
the interest plan the principal of $60,000 would be conserved for the children,
whereas there would be nothing for them, as contingent beneficiaries, after
twenty years' income had been paid on the installment plan. Many men would
prefer the interest plan in order to leave more eventually to the children.
Others would prefer the larger income during the earlier years of Mrs. Drew's
responsibility for the children, with the slightly larger permanent income even
at the sacrifice of the principal. It would be decidedly better to use the
installment plan for the sister. At 43^ per cent interest her $20,000 would
yield $900 a year. Her installment income (same assumptions as above) would
start at about $1,200 a year, average about $1,100 a year for twenty years and
continue at about $1,000 as long thereafter as she lived.

The Children's Incomes

The permanent income payable to each of Drew's children, assuming per cent
interest, would be $900 a year, and during four years, eighteen to twenty-two,
it would be increased by the payment to each of $1,000 in four annual
installments of about $260, making a total of about $1,160 for each of the four
college years.

The daughters' interest incomes would be payable to them for life, except that
they would have the option of changing their settlements to continuous
installments after age fifty, when installments would pay considerably more
than the interest plan. The son would receive his interest income to age
thirty, when $20,000 would be paid to him in cash. If Mrs. Drew died before the
end of the period certain, the three children would receive equal shares of the
balance of the installments certain. At the death of any child, its interest
income would be paid to the other children in equal shares, except that, at
thirty, the son would get his share of the principal, if any, in cash.

Drew's Income if Living at Sixty-five

At age sixty-five Drew would have $158,000 (assuming that he will have left his
present endowment of $25,000 on deposit with the company after it matures).
Interest at, say, per cent would yield him $7,100 a year.

His matured funds being on deposit with the company, Drew could enjoy the
interest during his lifetime and arrange for distribution of the money to his
beneficiaries at his death—making new beneficial provisions to suit the
conditions as they exist after he reaches age sixty-five.

CHANGING BENEFICIARY

The situation of Drew and his dependents may change materially as he grows
older, with the result that marked changes may be advisable in his beneficiary
provisions. The agent should review Drew's circumstances from time to time and
recommend necessary modifications.

ANNUITIES TO PARENTS

If the company in which Drew insures does not write survivorship annuities, the
$400 may be used to carry (at $30, net cost, per $1,000) about $13,000 of
Ordinary Life, with provision that at Drew's death the proceeds shall be used
to purchase life annuities for his parents aggregating about $1,000 to $1,200 a
year. In such case it may be desirable to divert a portion of the insurance
designated for Mrs. Drew to increase the annuity income for parents; or,
preferably, Drew would increase his deposits sufficiently to provide enough
insurance to purchase satisfactory annuities for his parents.

BUSINESS INSURANCE

Drew's value to the companies whose problems he is solving no doubt represents
an even larger sum of money than his value to his dependents.

The success of his research work may mean hundreds of thousands of dollars of
profits. A superior quality of glass produced under a patented process might
give to the company making it command of the market to a remarkable degree.

On the other hand, if Drew should die before completing his investigations, the
prospective profit would be lost. Moreover, there would be loss to the glass
company of at least a considerable portion of Drew's salary for the period
during which he would have been at work on the problem. In addition, there
would probably have been considerable cost for laboratory expenses, including
materials and the wages or salaries of assistants.

An intelligent presentation of these facts should be made to the proper company
official in order to point out the danger they are running of losing a large
potential profit and of losing what they are investing in their research
experiment.

Perhaps an estimate of $200,000 to $500,000 might eventually be made of the
total loss that would be sustained in case of Drew's premature death.

If the underwriter who handles Drew's personal insurance will talk with him
about his firm's need of protection on his life, Drew will undoubtedly be glad
to explain the situation thoroughly, so that7 the- underwriter may be able to
discuss it intelligently with the proper official.

Drew will also be able to tell which of the officers are most directly
interested in this work and what directors are especially concerned.

HOW TO INTEREST MR. DREW

No doubt the best way for the average agent to interest Mr. Drew will be to
select one urgent need, such as a life income for the invalid daughter, or the
education of his children, or a minimum life income for his wife, presented in
each case in connection with a provision for his old age. Once an initial
insurance has been taken, the agent may then proceed to develop step by step an
extended program. There are some successful underwriters who would succeed in
presenting a large program from the beginning.

PART III TALKING NEEDS

XII

TALKING NEEDS

SUPPOSE this extraordinary thing should happen to you: A prosperous man comes
into your office and says, "You sell life insurance, don't you?" "Oh—yes—of
course." "I want to buy all the insurance I need and I will buy it from you.
But the trouble is, I don't know how much I ought to have. Won't you please
tell me?"

What would you do, after you had recovered from the shock, assuming that you
judged the man really meant what he said.

You would probably do just what we have been talking about in the preceding
pages. You would first ask the man questions, in order to learn what were his
responsibilities. You would endeavor to find out what he was trying to do, what
were his hopes for the future of himself and family. Then you would talk to him
about these things, see if your estimate was correct, and get him to confirm
your ideas as to his needs. Next you would suggest amounts of money or get him
to do so. Finally, you would recommend insurance plans for the amounts
required, and

probably suggest separate policies for different purposes.

The prospect's statement that he wanted to buy all the insurance he really
needed would practically force you to follow the above procedure, the sequence
of which is the one illustrated with the "Target of Interest" in the first
chapter. In our interviews, let us always "talk needs" first, either directly
or indirectly. If you say, "Mr. Ale, you are probably going to send your son to
college, aren't you?" you have made a direct mention of the need—the thing the
father feels he must do for his son. And if you begin by saying, "Mr. Ale, you
have never bought an educational policy for your boy, have you?" although your
direct?reference is to a policy, you have made reference to the need itself by
naming your policy "educational." Either method is sound. But either opening
should be followed by a discussion of the father's wishes as to the son's
education, or of how the educational policy provides for an education. The
father's confirmation of the excellence of the idea makes easy the next step,
"How much money will it take to put the boy through college?" The kind of
policy or plan is the next step in your explanation.

In order that the beginner will understand clearly just what we mean by
"talking the need" in the early part of the interview, we have prepared a few
illustrations, which follow. These illustrations are brief and are, as it were,
only extracts from interviews. Each illustrates a different need. Careful
observation of these illustrations will convince the beginner that discussing
the need is a step in managing the interview. It is laying the mental track of
interest on which the prospect's mind is to run. Moreover, it places the
underwriter in a position of confidence with his prospect; for consideration of
the prospect's needs is golden-rule salesmanship and is easily recognized as
such.

XIII

TO PAY FINAL AND LIVING EXPENSES

WHEN a man dies, his final bills must ￼be paid by his family or by his estate.
Then the family will begin to have bills of their own. A minimum life insurance
program will include provision for closing the insured's estate and making
reasonable provision for the family's living expenses. These needs are the
basis of the following interview.

Byng:—Mr. Cowan, you believe in life insurance, I feel sure. Practically
everybody does nowadays. Nearly everybody carries a certain amount of
insurance, and is fairly well posted on the main features of a life insurance
contract. But there is one thing the average man does not know as regards his
own insurance—one of the most important points of all, viz., how much life
insurance he should have.

Have you ever had anyone explain to you the only scientific way of arriving at
the amount of life insurance you need? Cowan:—No, I don't think so. Byng:—The
thing is absolutely simple, yet very few men have ever tried it. Indeed, it is
so simple that comparatively few life insurance men ever think of using it. May
I take just a few minutes to explain it to you?

[graphic]

Cowan:—Yes, just a few minutes.

Byng:—The method is the same you would use if you were going to start a new
business. You would make up a list of the expenses you would have to meet for
rent, or the purchase of a building, remodeling and fixtures, office equipment
and a new stock of goods. Then you would figure your overhead, advertising
expenses, delivery costs, etc. In this way only could you form any idea of how
much money it would take to begin.

I am using what we call the minimumprogram method, to determine first of all
the minimum insurance requirements. Later, if you wish, we can figure out a
complete program.

The minimum program falls into two general divisions or sections.

The first section relates to items for which your family will need cash—your
own final expenses—closing your administration.

For example, there are always some accounts which must be paid promptly. As a
rule, a man's last illness lasts some little time; it might be for two or three
months, or longer. In such an event, in my own case, for example, it is quite
probable that there would be an accumulation of monthly bills to be paid after
my death. My wife would have been so occupied trying to help me that she would
probably have failed to pay the bills promptly during my illness. As a result,
at my death, there might well be two or three months' bills to pay—from the
grocer, the butcher, the milkman, the department stores, and even the landlord.
My annual state, county and municipal taxes might have become due in the
meantime, my Federal income tax for the previous year might not have been paid
in full, and there would be some income tax accrued for the current year to be
paid later. All these bills ought to be met promptly and they would require
cash.

Then there would be bills on account of my last illness; doctors' bills, bills
for medicines, maybe a hospital bill, possibly a surgeon's bill, and, of
course, my funeral expenses. It also happens that we have never bought a
cemetery lot. That would also have to be attended to at once. There are some
other things for which she ought to have cash immediately after my death. I
carry a small mortgage on my home—$3,000. The house is not a very large one and
would make a good home for my family as long as they live, if I can make sure
of leaving it to them clear. So I want to add to the cash I will

have paid at my death $3,000 to lift the mortgage.

Sometimes I owe money at the bank, $500, $1,000 or $1,500. Sometimes I put up
collateral, sometimes I don't. But, in either case, I would want to leave
enough to liquidate any such loans, leave my estate clear for my wife and
children and release any securities I might have put up at the bank.

Summing up these items, I find that it would probably take the following
amounts paid in cash at my death to clean up all my final expenses (shows the
following list already typed on a card):

For accumulated bills, say, $400 a month for

three months $1,200

"doctors' bills (medicine, surgeon, etc.).. . 1,000

"funeral expenses 1,000

"cemetery lot 500

"mortgage 3,000

"loans 1'000

"income tax 300

"local taxes 200

"miscellaneous 300

Total final expenses $8,500

Of course, I don't know how much would be required in your case. Perhaps more
for some things and less for others. For instance, I don't know whether you
have a mortgage on your home.

Cowan:—Yes, my house is mortgaged for $6,000.

Byng:—Would you need to provide cash for loans at the bank?

Cowan:—No, I don't think so. I would take care of those in another way. My
loans are practically all on account of the business and I figure I'll let the
business pay them.

Byng:—I see. Well, wouldn't you think that, in your case, the other expenses
would be as much as in my own case, or maybe more?

Cowan:—I guess so. My regular monthly bills run around $600. Two or three
months' bills would amount to $1,200 or $1,800.

Byng:—Well, let's put these things down— a sort of budget for cash payments.
(By asking some questions tactfully as he goes along, he gets the following
fist.)

Mortgage $6,000

Bills 1,800

Doctors' bills, hospital, nurses, etc 1,000

Income tax 600

Local taxes 500

Funeral expenses, cemetery lot 1,000

Miscellaneous 500

Total $11,400

Mr. Cowan, I don't know whether you have made a will or not? Cowan:—No, I
haven't.

Byng:—Well, let's see. Would you want to leave anything to anybody outside of
your immediate family? I mean other than to your wife and children.

Cowan:—No.

Byng:—Of course, I don't know how much of an estate you estimate you would
leave.

1 was wondering if we could get at the probable amount of your inheritance tax.

Cowan:—Well, I figure I wouldn't have any inheritance tax. I don't think my net
estate would exceed $50,000.

Byng:—Aren't you thinking of the Federal Tax? Of course, there would be no
Federal Tax on a net estate of less than $50,000. But there is the State
Inheritance Tax.

Cowan:—Is there an inheritance tax in this State?

Byng:—Yes; in our State there is a tax of

2 per cent on estates between $25,000 and $100,000, with an exemption of
$5,000, if the estate goes to your wife and children. From what you say, I
would suggest you provide $500 to $1,000 for the State Inheritance Tax. Your
estate will probably grow gradually. With this in mind, I am going to suggest
that the total provision for cash payments be fixed at a minimum of $12,000 or
$13,000. I would rather see it $15,000, for there are always unexpected needs
for cash. You and I can't sit here and think of everything, no matter how hard
we try. You can see that we haven't put down anything that is not very likely
to be needed, have we?

Cowan:—No, I guess not. But I think my estate could take care of most of these
items.

Byng:—Mr. Cowan, as a good business man, you don't carry anything like a cash
balance of $15,000 in your personal account, do you?

Cowan:—I should say not!

Byng:—Of course not. It would be foolish to do so. Therefore, these final
expenses which are personal would have to be paid by your executor by selling
some of your assets. The choicest assets would be the ones to go, for they
would be the easiest to sell and would bring the best prices. The market would
probably be bad for some of your assets. There would probably be some loss,
which would be most unfortunate. Life insurance to provide the cash to pay your
final personal expenses would be an easy way not only to protect your wife but
also to protect your best assets against shrinkage.

* * * * *

Now, in this program I have a second provision for a monthly income to pay your
family's minimum living expenses from month to month. If your estate is well
managed, it will provide comforts and make it possible for your family to live
on a larger scale. But this minimum income will be guaranteed and your family
will have this much, no matter what may happen.

We might think of the two sections of the program in this way: that the first
provision for cash is really to pay your own last bills, to close out your 
administration. The second provision is to guarantee a minimum for Mrs. Cowan's
administration—for the bills she will have to pay.

You know how it is at the end of every month; you get a batch of bills, and
sometimes they look pretty big. And you get out your check-book and write
checks to pay the grocer, the meat man, the milkman, the telephone company, and
all the rest. Or, maybe you draw a check for so much money and Mrs. Cowan pays
the bills. Some day Mrs. Cowan may have to pay the bills at the end of the
month. The purpose of the second part of this program is to provide her with a
check every month, so that she will be able to pay her bills promptly. That is
just what you would want, of course; isn't it?

Cowan:—Yes, I guess so.

Byng:—The question arises, "How much will it take as a minimum?'' You said a

while ago that your monthly bills now run around $600. As a minimum you might
want to provide $150 or $200 a month. In order to get at this problem, I
brought with me some specimen budgets issued by the United States Treasury
Department's Savings Division. Here is the budget of expenses for a man earning
$200 a month.

$2,400 a Year—$200 a Month.

[merged small][table]

This budget was planned as a Thrift Budget, and you will see that, for a family
of three, $40 a month is set aside for savings. If you should leave your
family, your wife and two children, an income policy of $200 a month, you
wouldn't expect them to save anything, so we may disregard this item for the
present; treat it as surplus in case we need it. The next item is for rent—$25
a month. Your family would have your home with the mortgage paid. But would
this rent allowance of $25 be too much to allow for taxes, fire insurance,
water, rent and upkeep? Three hundred a year?

Cowan:—No, it wouldn't.

Byng:—The next item is for food. The amount given here, $48, or $16 a month per
person, wouldn't be too much for groceries, would it?

Cowan:—No, I would say that was minimum.

Byng:—The next item is clothing. Twenty-five dollars a month—$300 a year—for
three persons, $100 each. I don't believe that would be too much for clothing,
do you? You know how little clothing you can buy to-day for $100.

Cowan:—No, $100 would be a small amount. My wife pays that much for a dress.

Byng:—"General Housekeeping Expenses" is the next item—$20 a month—$240 a year.
Since there is no special provision in this budget for fuel and light, it is
evident that "general housekeeping expenses" is meant to cover fuel and light
as well as brooms, soap, towels, replacement of household equipment, broken
glass and chinaware, and other things. All those things can hardly be taken
care of on less than $240 a year, can they? Cowan:—No.

(Byng proceeds in a similar manner with other items.)

Byng:—After going over this budget, doesn't it seem to you that a minimum
income of $200 a month wouldn't be more than enough to guarantee just the
necessities for a comfortable living?

Cowan:—I guess not. But I have some investments in addition to my insurance.

Byng:—That's fortunate. The $200 a month minimum would guarantee living
expenses. Assuming your investments would be well managed after your death, the
income from them would provide many comforts and perhaps certain luxuries. But
if anything should happen to your investments, the $200 a month to pay living
expenses would be guaranteed. Now, let's see; can you let me have a pencil and
a piece of paper? (Cowan furnishes paper and pencil.) We found that you would
need at least $12,000 or $13,000 to cover final expenses, including the
mortgage. How much insurance are you already carrying? Cowan:—$20,000.

Byng:—That's fine. Is it payable in cash? Cowan:—Yes.

Byng:—Well, I recommend that you set aside $12,000 to $15,000 of this $20,000
for cash requirements, including the mortgage. Which would you say, keeping in
mind the possibility of unforeseen emergencies?

Cowan:—I guess $15,000 would be better.

Byng:—I think you are right. That leaves $5,000 to apply on the income. What
you want to know now is how much it will take in addition to the $5,000 to
provide $200 a month. What is your age?

Cowan:—Forty.

Byng:—I suppose Mrs. Cowan is about the same age?

Cowan:—No, five years younger.

Byng:—In case you should die the first year, Mrs. Cowan being, say,
thirty-five, each $1,000 of your present insurance would provide a guarantee of
about $47 a year for twenty years certain and for as much longer as she lived.
There would be surplus interest averaging, on our present earning basis, about
$5 per $1,000 for nineteen years. Figure the total income per $1,000 while the
children are growing up at about $52. Your $5,000 would provide about $250 or
$260 a year on the average for nineteen years and $235 or $236 a year as long
as Mrs. Cowan lived.

Cowan:—A little over one month's income.

Byng:—About five weeks.

Cowan:—Why, that means I would have to carry about $50,000 more. I can't do it.
How much would that cost on the ordinary life plan?

Byng (figuring):—It would take about $42,000 on the regular ordinary life plan.
The first deposit would be about $1,300 or $1,400. But let's not call it cost.
If you put $1,000 in the bank, you wouldn't say it had cost you $1,000, would
you?

Cowan:—Call it what you please, I'd have to lay out $1,300.

Byng:—You would have to lay it away, of course. But the cash values would give
you a constantly growing fund for emergencies or for yourself in your old age.
But I wasn't going to suggest the regular ordinary life policy. My plan is to
use what we call the life income policy with ordinary life basis. The $5,000
will provide about $250 a year at the start, say $235 permanently. That leaves
about $2,150 a year, or about $180 a month to figure on. The premium to
guarantee $180 a month under the life income policy would be only about $1,100
a

year at the beginning, being gradually reduced by annual dividends. If our
present dividend scale is maintained, the second deposit would be less than
$1,000 [figuring]— about $960.

The above presentation may seem to be rather long and in too much detail. It is
necessarily longer when written out than when spoken. The essential plan can be
outlined in ten or fifteen minutes in such a way as to give the prospect a
clear idea of his minimum insurance needs and to serve as the basis for the
interview.

Throughout the interview Byng keeps closely to the things for which money will
be needed after Cowan's death, emphasizing also the time when payments will be
required. He estimates the amount of money that must be provided and finally
submits a plan of insurance. This method follows the sequence of (1) Needs, (2)
Money to provide for them, (3) An insurance plan to furnish the money.

[ocr errors]

A PLACE TO LIVE

IN this case the agent, Stark, has already broached the, subject of life
insurance and the prospect, Bates, now raises a stereotyped "objection":

Bates:—No, Mr. Stark, I am not in the market for any life insurance.

Stark:—I suppose you carry some insurance, Mr. Bates, for I am sure you believe
that life insurance is a necessity for a man who has dependents. Bates:—Yes, I
carry a policy. Stark:—Would you mind telling me how much it is? Bates:—Three
thousand dollars. Stark:—I'm glad you are carrying that much, for it does show
that you are a believer in life insurance. Mr. Bates, have you decided what
this $3,000 policy is to be used fort

Bates:—What do you mean?

Stark:—Is it to be used to pay your final expenses or to help on your wife's
administration?

Bates:—I don't get you.

Stark:—Let me illustrate. The first thing that insurance money is ordinarily
used for is to pay the final expenses of the head of the family. For example,
at my death, my family will have to pay certain bills immediately—outstanding
bills, doctors' bills and hospital expenses, expenses for the funeral and all
the many things in connection with it. Sometimes a man's taxes are due and
unpaid. Sometimes he owes money and his family always wants to square him with
the world. Frequently there is a mortgage. There are always emergency expenses
that can't be estimated in advance. In the average case, for men situated as
you and I are, it will take at least $2,000 to $3,000.

"I would say that your case is like that of the average man, in that your
present insurance is just about what would be needed for your final expenses. 
Do you own your home?

Bates:—No, we rent.

Stark:—Let us consider for a moment a rent policy. Bates:—A what?

Stark:—A rent policy. I don't know how much rent you are paying; but in case of
your death, what would you say would be the least rent your family could get
along on?

Bates:—I don't know. We now pay $65 a month for our apartment.

Stark:—Well, suppose we take $30 as the minimum. Wouldn't you like to guarantee
that, if anything happened to you, your family would at least have $30 a month
for a little apartment or a small cottage in the suburbs? You see, the first
item of living expenses is the rent. If a family owns its home without any
mortgage, or if they have the steady income every month from a rent policy,
they have a place to live. That reduces the living problem to a minimum. But if
they haven't a home guaranteed them, their problem is much greater. Just think
what it would mean to your family, if, after your death, they found that you
had done two big things for them—provided for payment of all your final
expenses and guaranteed a minimum rental of $30 a month for twenty years.

The above method of presenting a small income insurance is often used by agents
who recognize the value of basing their presentation on some specific need. The
same method can be applied to income provision for other monthly needs—the
grocery bill, general household expenses, etc.

[ocr errors][merged small][merged small]

Ajl cal care, the most important need of children is for an education. Most
parents are very anxious to do all they can to educate their boys and girls.
Discussing a plan to guarantee a child's education is a sure way to the
prospect's interest.

Davis:—Mr. Adams, my name is Davis. I represent the Hearth and Home Life
Insurance Company. If you are not too busy I would like to discuss with you a
matter which I know is of great interest to you.

Adams:—Well, I am too busy to talk life insurance, and besides I have all the
life insurance I need.

Davis:—If you are too busy to give me any time now, Mr. Adams, I will be glad
to arrange for an interview at your convenience. However, you are mistaken ior-
thinking I came to discuss life insurance now. I might want to do that later,
but not right away. Adams:—Well, what is it? Davis:—You have a son, haven't
you, Mr. Adams? Adams:—Yes.

[graphic]

Davis:—He's ten or twelve years old, isn't he?

Adams:—Thirteen.

Davis:—Then he's about ready for high school, isn't he? Adams:—Almost.

Davis:—I suppose you expect him to go through high school and then go to
college, don't you?

Adams:—Yes.

Davis:—Have you decided what college he will go to?

Adams:—Yes, Columbia University.

Davis:—It is interesting to see fathers planning many years ahead, as you are,
just what they want to do for their boys at least until they are grown. And, of
course, the most important plan nearly always concerns the boy's education.
Talk with any father who has a boy the age of yours, and you will find he is
thinking just as you are— planning for the boy's education. That is quite
natural; for the biggest thing a father can do for a son is to give him a good
education, isn't it?

Adams:—Yes. That is true. If I can give my boy a good education that is the
best thing I can do for him. But why do you want to talk about my boy's
education?

Davis:—I'll tell you in just a moment. First, however, I would like to ask you
a question, Mr. Adams. You are planning for your boy to have a fine education
so that he will be equipped to meet his responsibilities. Have you guaranteed
that he will have a chance to go through college?

Adams:—Guaranteed? You mean by life insurance?

Davis:—Here is what I mean. If you live and keep your health, your boy will
have the opportunity to go to Columbia and get the kind of education you want
him to have. But suppose your boy should be so unfortunate as to lose his
father before he has completed his college course; have you made arrangements
to guarantee that his college expenses will be paid just the same?

Adams:—No, I haven't.

Davis:—It would be a splendid thing to do for your boy, wouldn't it? And
wouldn't you feel a great satisfaction if you knew that no matter what might
happen, your son could complete his education?

Adams:—Yes. I suppose your idea would be to carry a policy for the boy?

Davis:—Perhaps. If that would be the best and surest way to guarantee it.

Adams:—Well, I have all the insurance I want to carry at this time. Maybe
sometime later.

Davis:—Let's leave life insurance out of the discussion for the present. I'm
not here just to sell you a life insurance policy. Of course, my business is
life insurance, but I do not prescribe life insurance unless it seems to be
needed. You might call a doctor who would prescribe no medicine for your
particular trouble, but simply fresh air or a change in diet. It is my business
to help people with life insurance, if they need it; not otherwise. Now, here
is something you want to do for your boy more than anything else. And I am sure
you want him to go through Columbia, whether you live or not, don't you?

Adams:—Yes, of course.

Davis:—Then you would like to guarantee his college education, wouldn't you?
The question is how to do it. Have you thought of any other way to do it?

Adams:—No, except to leave him the money from my estate.

Davis:—How much would it take to pay his college expenses for four years?

Adams:—Oh—I guess about $5,000 or $6,000.

Davis:—Mr. Adams, can you think of any better way to guarantee that your son
will have $5,000 or $6,000 paid to him in an income during his Nfour. years at
college in case of your death than to get the life insurance company to make a
contract with you to do that?

Adams:—Well, maybe not. But I could arrange to leave him $5,000 or $6,000 for
that purpose.

Davis:—Mr. Adams, even if the average business man who dies left enough estate
in property, securities and life insurance to support his family, his wife
might find it hard to set aside enough to put a son or daughter through
college. Then there's another thing. You know your boy better than I do; but I
know the average boy well enough to feel sure that, unless you could leave Mrs.
Adams such a large income that she could send your son to college without
making some sacrifice, he wouldn't let her do it. He would do one of two
things. He would give up his dream of a college education, or he would try to
work his way through college. Am I not right? Don't you believe that is just
about the way he would feel about taking any money from his mother?

Adams:—Yes, I guess it is.

Davis:—Besides, you wouldn't want him to work his way through college, would
you?

Adams:—Well, I don't know. Many a good man has worked *. bis way through
college.

Davis:—You are right. But the average man who has done so—not the exceptional
man, but the average man—has done it at a sacrifice of thoroughness, often at
the sacrifice of health. College teachers and administrators agree that the
average boy is at a disadvantage if he is obliged to work his way through
college. You would like for your boy to have just as good a chance, if you
died, both in his education and in laying the foundation for good health, as he
will have if you live, provided you can make provision for him in a reasonable
way. If you do this, you can be sure that if anything happens to you, he will
get his chance, without danger to his health from trying to do his college work
and earn a living at the same time, and with plenty of time to do his college
work well. How much do you think you would like to make it, Mr. Adams, $5,000
or $6,000?

Adams:—I might do something later but not now. I really can't afford it.

Davis:—Mr. Adams, of course that is a question you must decide for yourself. I
would be presumptuous if I insisted that you can afford it when you say you
can't. But I feel that I ought to point out this fact—that you will get enough
satisfaction out of knowing that your boy's education is guaranteed to

compensate you for any hardship in meeting the premium deposits. And if it
would be hard for you to spare $150 or $200 a year now, think how much harder
it would be on your boy, if he were deprived of $1200 to $1500 a year for the
four years when you want the boy to be in college.

Adams:—Would the premium be $150 to $200 a year?

Davis:—About; depending on whether you want the boy to have $5000 or $6000—
Which will you make it—$5000 or $6000?

Adams:—Better make it $6,000. What is the correct amount of the premium?

The above interview is logically conducted, from the point of view of interest 
in the need, money and life insurance. First, the need is discussed. Secondly,
the amount of money which will be necessary to supply the need. Thirdly, the
life insurance policy, which will provide the money to supply the need. life
insurance is not what the prospect wants. He wants his boy to have a college
education. Life insurance is the means to the desired end.

Mr. Adams is, of course, interested in his boy's education. Davis knew that
Adams had a, son and knew his approximate age. The need of a good education is,
after the need for food, shelter, clothing and medical care, the greatest need
in the boy's life for which the father must provide. He is doing that now, and
will continue to do so, if he lives. It is reasonable to assume that he will
want this great need provided for even in event of his death.

It is therefore reasonably certain that we can get a good hearing from a father
if we talk to him somewhat as Davis talks to Adams.

Talking the need of a college education and then showing how easily this need
may be provided for is hitting the bull's-eye of interest.

[ocr errors][merged small][merged small]

The family will need a home to live in. The mortgage threatens the home. Life
insurance is a means by which the money to lift the mortgage can be most
readily guaranteed in case the head of the family dies before paying it off.
The need of clearing the mortgage is discussed in the following interview:

Billings:—Good morning, Mr. Ray.

Ray:—Good morning, Billings. What can I do for you?

Billings:—Can you give me ten or fifteen minutes, Mr. Ray?

Ray:—To talk life insurance?

Billings:—Yes. But first I wanted to talk to you about your new house. I
understand you have bought a home on Woodlawn Avenue. That's a nice location
and I guess you like it, don't you?

Ray:—Yes, we like it very much.

Billings:—I assume that like nine men out of ten you made a part payment on the
house and gave a mortgage for the balance. That

[graphic]

prospect for life insurance. is the usual way of buying a house, and that's the
way I bought mine.

Ray:—Yes, there's a mortgage.

Billings:—When you bought the house, one of the first things you thought of was
fire insurance, and no doubt had the fire insurance that was already in force
transferred to you. As a matter of fact, you would not have been able to get a
mortgage without the fire insurance, would you?

Ray:—(Shakes his head) No.

Billings:—You are probably paying 6 per cent interest. That's what I pay. Did
the bank offer to put a clause in the mortgage deed, canceling the mortgage and
giving your wife a clear deed to the property if you should die?

Ray:—No.

Billings:—No, of course not; banks don't do that sort of thing. I know a family
that had a mortgage on their home. The husband died and it was necessary for
the widow to give up her home. It had to be sold to pay off the mortgage; and,
as it was a forced sale and the real estate market was dull, the house brought
a low price and the poor woman's equity was very small. No doubt she and her
husband had expected they would eventually pay off the mortgage and have their
home free from debt. And it is probable that both of them figured that, after
they paid off the mortgage, if the husband died, the widow and her children
would have no rent to pay and that this would make it much easier for them to
live. I don't know whether you have thought of your home in that way as yet.
You have just bought it. But one of the most important reasons for owning a
home is to be able to guarantee our families a permanent place to live and
sooner or later you will be taking a lot of satisfaction in the thought lhat
when you pay off the mortgage your family will have a home as long as they
live, even if you should die. But why not guarantee them this home, even if you
should die before the mortgage is paid? Of course, you are in good health, and
count on living a long time. But there are thousands of men who have been
situated just as you are, and who have left their families a mortgage instead
of a home clear of debt.

Suppose the bank had proposed to put a clause in your mortgage to the effect
that, if you died before the mortgage was paid, the entire debt would be
canceled and your wife would receive a clear title to the house, in
consideration of the payment of about 8 per cent interest instead of 6 per
cent;

don't you think that would have hem a very attractive proposition? Ray:—Yes, it
would.

Billings:—Well, that is my proposition. My company will add that feature to
your plan for owning your home, so that you can leave it to your family without
any encumbrance, if you should die. Do you mind telling me the amount of the
mortgage?

Ray:—Five thousand five hundred dollars.

Billings:—You are paying 6 per cent, or $330, a year for the use of $5,500 you
have borrowed on your house, and which you must pay back. Wouldn't it be worth
another 2 per cent to buy $5,500; that will cancel the loan and give your
family a clear title? Indeed, that is a wonderful contract— only 2 per cent to
buy $5,500 payable in cash to wipe out the loan, when you are paying 6 per cent
for the privilege of borrowing $5,500 which you will have to pay back.

You would want this paid direct to your wife, wouldn't you, Mr. Ray? Ray:—Yes.

Here again we have used the sequence of need, money, life insurance; with
reference to the prospect's interest, this sequence is correct.

XVII

THE NEEDS OF A YOUNG MAN

PERHAPS no other prospect seems to possess so little tangible need for life
insurance as the young man who has no dependents and no important obligations.
Of course, life insurance furnishes a splendid savings plan, but the average
young man isn't very deeply interested in saving his money. The accumulation of
money for the distant future does not make a strong appeal. However, there is
one interest or need which holds the attention of the average young man— the
need of getting ahead in business. Can life insurance help him? In the
following conversation, McAtee tries to show Nesbit how life insurance may help
him by winning the approval of his employer and of other people whose good
opinion will be valuable to him. Other needs are touched on to strengthen the
proposal—the need of protecting his parents, the need of accumulating capital,
and the need for a plan that will make saving comparatively easy.

Mr. McAtee, thirty-five years old, calls on Mr. Nesbit who is twenty-two years
old.

McAtee:—Good morning, Nesbit. I want to talk to you a few minutes.

Nesbit:—All right, sit down, Mr. McAtee.

McAtee:—I want to talk about something the average young man isn't much
interested in—saving money. But I believe you will be interested. When we think
how sorry the average man forty or forty-five years old is that he didn't save
all he could when he was young, it seems strange that young men don't save all
they can. As a matter of fact, don't you agree with me that young men ought to
save their money?

Nesbit:—Yes, I guess they ought.

McAtee:—Can you think of any specific reasons why it would be a good thing to
save something regularly?

Nesbit:—Well, it's always a good thing to have something saved up.

McAtee:—May I tell you why I think a regular habit of saving some of your money
would be a good thing for you or for anyone? Of course, everybody ought to have
an an emergency fund saved up, so that if the unexpected happens, there will be
extra money on hand to pay the bills. Many a young fellow has a spell of
sickness and has to borrow the money to pay his doctors' bills. Frequently a
young man has an opportunity to make a good investment, but he hasn't the money
to invest. Saving makes it possible for a young man to take advantage of
business opportunities. But I wasn't thinking so much of that sort of thing.
Here's what I have in mind. You are still young. (I wish I were twenty-two
again.) Your business life is practically all ahead of you. You have the choice
of being successful or of just making a living. You hope for success. But, you
know, hoping won't win out. It will take a lot of other things. Industry, for
instance, and, no doubt, you are industrious. In order to have financial
success, you will have to have money. But making a lot of money doesn't
guarantee real success. Financial success depends on what we lay up. The
financially successful man has built up an estate, and that's what you will
have to do—build up an estate which in later years will return you an income
even after you are unable to work. Andrew Carnegie and practically every
successful man who has given his reasons for success has said that the
foundation of success is saving. You know that as well as I do. No matter how
little you can save, you ought to save that little. Many millionaires have told
how they began saving when they were earning only $3 or $4 a week. The thing
that counts is the habit of saving. It is hard for most people to save
regularly. If it wasn't there would be more people with money in the bank and
real estate and stocks and bonds. Now, I'm going to tell you one reason why I
believe life insurance would be a good thing for you. You would assumean
obligation to save. The only easy way for most people to save is to assume some
obligation—a mortgage on real estate or a life insurance policy. Payments come
due regularly and are met regularly; the money hasjto be saved. A life
insurance policy has been the sole means of enabling thousands of young men to
save regularly who otherwise would have saved irregularly and would perhaps
have accumulated very little. Here is another reason why a life insurance
policy would be a good thing for you. Some time ago a young man I knew died. He
had no estate—not even a life insurance estate. He owed a little money—his
tailor, his month's board, his doctors' bills, and a few other things— probably
two or three hundred dollars. His father, who wasn't very well off and who
already had heavy obligations, had to pay these bills. More than that, his
father had to pay the boy's funeral expenses, $500 or $600. Altogether, the
father had to assume a total indebtedness of nearly $1,000; for he didn't have
the money and was obliged

to borrow it. Now, wouldn't it have been a fine thing and the right thing if
this young man had had an estate of at least $1,000?

Nesbit:—Yes, it would.

McAtee:—Another thing. That young man's father and mother had made a good many
sacrifices to give him an education and other advantages. Wouldn't it have been
splendid if, instead of leaving only liabilities and debts, this young man had
left an estate of $2,000 or $3,000, so that there would have been enough to pay
all his bills and final expenses and something to help his mother and father—a
token of his appreciation of what they had done for him? Don't you think it
would?

Nesbit:—Yes, life insurance is a good thing. But I can't do anything now. Maybe
later.

McAtee:—Nesbit, not long ago the owner of a large and successful business was
looking for a young man in this city to manage a small branch office. He
offered it to a young man I know, provided he could raise $1,000 with which to
buy a small amount of stock. But the young man couldn't raise the money. He had
nothing saved up and he couldn't borrow. The young man who got the position had
saved up $500 in the bank and he had a $5,000 life insurance policy on which he
was able to borrow the rest. Suppose such an opportunity came to you. Wouldn't
it be fine if you had the money saved up so you could take advantage of it?

Nesbit:—Yes, I guess it would.

McAtee:—I know another young man who wanted to start in business. He had only a
little money in the bank. He had supported his mother for years. A long illness
and her death had taken what money he had accumulated. But he said to the
banker, "If you will loan me $1,000 I'll assign my life insurance policy to
you. If I live you know I'll pay you. If I die, the life insurance company will
pay you." He got the money. Although his savings had been spent, they had been
spent for an emergency. The banker knew he had saved before and had the saving
habit. He knew the young man was industrious and would pay if he lived. If not,
the insurance company would pay. Now, if you should ever need to borrow money,
wouldn't it be a good thing to have a life insurance policy to strengthen your
credit?

Nesbit:—I guess it wouldn't hurt.

McAtee:—Nesbit, let me ask you to decide a question for me. You are interested
in getting ahead, in being promoted or in securing a better position than you
have, because you want to be successful. Would it or would it not be a good
thing for you to plan and do those things which win the approval of successful
business men—of employers? Nesbit:—Of course.

McAtee:—All right. Now, I'm going to ask you the question I want you to decide
for me. Suppose an employer should be on the point of selecting one of the
young men in his office for advancement and that he should call in his
assistant and say: "John, I must select somebody to put in charge of the new
department, but I can't decide who it shall be. We have two young men who I
believe can fill the job, Bill and Sam; but I don't seem to be able to decide
which is the better man for the job. They are both about the same age. Both are
industrious. Both are punctual. Both are capable. They are both very much
interested in their work. Neither one watches the clock. Both of them know the
business. Both of them are popular in the office and with customers. As a
matter of fact, I can't see that either one of them is a better man than the
other. I thought maybe you could help me."

And suppose that the assistant should reply, "It is hard. They are evenly
matched. But I'll think it over and come back in a little while."

And suppose he came back in an hour or two and said: "I can think of only one
respect in which one of these boys may be considered to be a better business
man than the other. Bill saves his money; I know he has quite a little money in
the savings bank. He is not a tightwad, but for a long time he has always set
aside something out of every month's salary. Besides, I found out recently that
he's carrying $5,000 of life insurance. I asked him why he was carrying this
insurance, because, you know, he isn't married, and his folks don't need any
help from him. And he said there were three reasons: first, because he wanted
to save more money and he found it was a lot easier if he forced himself to
save by buying a life insurance policy; secondly, he wanted to be sure he had
an estate that he could depend on in his old age, so he has taken an endowment
policy that would pay him $5,000 when he is sixty years old; and thirdly, that
if he should die, he would want to leave an estate large enough to pay all his
debts and funeral expenses and leave a substantial amount for his folks. Said
he always felt that a man was a failure if he couldn't leave some estate when
he died. But Sam is just the other way. He never saves anything. He is a good
spender, wears good clothes, sees all the latest shows, gives the girls a good
time. I know he hasn't anything saved up, because he had a big dentist's bill a
few months ago and I lent him the money to pay it. He paid me back just as
quickly as he could. He's absolutely honest, but he doesn't save any money."

Now, Nesbit, I want to ask you: If you were the employer in that case, whom
would you promote, Bill or Sam?

From the point of view of interest, the above presentation is logical. Nesbit
recognizes the need of saving money, though it does not seem pressing. He means
to save some day, though he prefers to delay the sacrifice. He recognizes the
need of protecting his father against expense in case of his own death; also
the need of satisfying his own wish to have something for his parents; but
these needs, though apparent, do not press. The need of having something saved
up in case of an opportunity to take up some business proposition seems more
pressing. Finally, the needs of getting ahead, winning the approval of his
employer and of other business men are urgent. Nesbit can feel the importance
of doing that which will help him in this direction.

XVIII

CONFIDENCE OF THE BUYER

TT THEN a man starts out to sell stock in VV a newly organized company, he
needs the confidence of prospective purchasers. This interview shows how one of
the author's friends, an Illinois agent, used this need as the basis for
placing $100,000 of life insurance.

Allen:—Mr. Williams, I received your circular regarding the new company you are
organizing and was very much impressed with it.

Williams:—That's good. We really have a good proposition, and I believe we
shall make a lot of money.

Allen:—I think so, too. In fact, your explanation of what you are going to do
interested me so much that my first impulse was to sit down and write you a
check for $1,000. I'd really like to have about ten shares. But on reflection I
decided I wouldn't buy without having a talk with you. I read the circular two
or three times, but there wasn't anything in it about life insurance.

Williams:—Well, I guess not. We are not starting a life insurance company.

Allen:—No, of course not. But I'm going to ask you a question: Why do you
suppose I was inclined, as soon as I read your circular, to subscribe for ten
shares of your stock?

Williams:—Because it looked like a good thing.

Allen:—Right—partially. But that isn't the whole story.

Williams:—What's the rest?

Allen:—Because you—Williams—are promoting the company and are going to manage
it.

Williams:—Thank you.

Allen:—You don't get me. I'm not complimenting you. I'm simply stating a fact.
In deciding to buy an interest in a new company I must have confidence, first,
in the merit of the proposal, and, secondly, in the man back of it. There are
hundreds of other men in this town whose names, signed to the same circular,
would have made me afraid to buy. But I have confidence in your ability and
integrity.

However, a thought came to me which weakened my confidence in the proposition
considerably. If you five and keep your health, I feel sure the new company
will be a success. But if you should die before the business has been put on
its feet, the company might fail and I might lose all, or a part of, my $1,000.

Now, I believe there are many others who feel just as I do. In order to market
this stock easily and to give your shareholders the greatest possible feeling
of satisfaction, you must establish the maximum of confidence, not only as to
the merit of the proposition, but also as to the safety of their money.

Many of them will say to themselves, "This is a fine plan. Williams is all
right. Guess I'll put in some money. But suppose something should happen to
Williams. Maybe I'd better not put in as much as I first thought I would."

If this circular letter [holding it in his hand] had contained the following
sentence, the confidence of your prospects would have been greatly increased:
"Mr. Williams has taken out $100,000 of life insurance for the protection of
the shareholders. In case of his death, this sum of money will be paid to the
corporation by the life insurance company."

Williams:—Allen, you are right. We'll fix that up at once, and I'll get out
another circular letter to follow up the first one. And I guess you will take
those ten shares.

Allen:—You bet I will.

THE END

[ocr errors][merged small][graphic][subsumed][subsumed][ocr errors]
[merged small][graphic][merged small]
[graphic][subsumed]
[graphic]
[ocr errors]
