[graphic]
[graphic][ocr errors]

Developing Executive
Ability

By

ENOCH BURTON GOWIN

Assistant Professor of Commerce, New York University School of
Commerce, Accounts and finance; Secretary, The Executives' Club
of New York; Chairman, Committee on Executive Training, National
Association of Corporat1on Schools; Author, "The Executive and His
Control of Men," "The Selection and Training of the Business
Executive," etc.

[graphic][merged small][merged small]

Copyright, 1919, by
The Ronald Press Company

To Members Of

The Executives' Club Of New York

Earnest Workers, Sincere Comrades, ForwardLooking Leaders, This Work Is
Dedicated In Appreciation

PREFACE

"There are more jobs for forceful men than there are forceful men to fill
them," says the Chairman of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation, Charles M. Schwab.
"Whenever the question comes up of buying new works we never consider whether
we can make the works pay. That is a foregone conclusion if we can get the
right man to manage them."

"The average man is ambitious and wants to get ahead," says the General Manager
of the Loose-Wiles Biscuit Company, G. H. Willcockson, "but he does not know
how."

The opportunity with which men in business are faced and the reason why it
remains in large measure unutilized are here set forth. Though the need for
their most skilled service continues very real, men possessed of the latent
executive capacity too often are left to plod through the day's work as best
they may, without vision and the definite methods which might so readily
advance them.

This vision and these definite methods, valuable because based on sound
principles and concrete enough to apply to the day's work, are necessary if men
in business are to forge ahead; and they ought to be so interwoven with the
general qualities of mind and body that a coherent program of personal
management results. The individual then utilizes to the full his resources
because he wants to and knows how. That such full utilization shall take place
in the reader's personality and career constitutes the purpose of this book.

The form of presentation adopted is non-technical and informal to a degree
perhaps unusual in a work of such serious purpose. The author admittedly has a
preference for the

more strictly scientific, and the informal nature of the book is due to the
fact that much of its material has been presented before various groups of
business and college men, and that the interest and preferences of these
audiences have been taken rather definitely as a guide in the task of writing.
Theoretical discussions, which in the past proved least interesting, have been
reduced to a minimum; and concrete instances, definite methods and opinions of
leading executives, for which the hearers evinced a keen appreciation, have
been presented with relative fulness. The result is not a work for scholars,
much less an attempt to display erudition, but a series of chapters distinctly
practical in their aim.

It is a pleasure to acknowledge the aid received from business executives, who
in considerable number considered with the author their problems; students who
have supplied various materials; and the following books and magazines,
quotations from which appear in the present volume on the pages specified:
George P. Baker and Henry C. Huntington, "Principles of Argumentation," 239,
240; Harrington Emerson, "Twelve Principles of Efficiency," 135; B. C. Forbes,
"Men Who Are Making America," 10, 371, 417; F. B. Gilbreth, "Motion Study,"
172; W. H. Herndon and J. W. Wiek, "Abraham Lincoln," 220; Hearst's Magazine, 
347, Engineering Magazine, 284, 285, 286; William James, "Principles of
Psychology," 84, 85, 87, 186, 325-326; Ibidem, "Talks to Teachers on
Psychology," 344, 352; E. D. Jones, "Administration of Industrial Enterprises;"
W. C. Mitchell, "Business Cycles," 261, 266; Angelo Mosso, "Fatigue," 339; F.
W. McMurry, "How to Study," 16; Life Extension Institute, 296, 314, 358; J. D.
Rockefeller, "Random Reminiscences of Men and Events;" C. E. Seashore,
"Psychology in Everyday Life," 86; System, 11, 54, 115, 129, 149, 151, 208,
429; Ida M. Tarbell, "History of the Standard Oil Company," 64, 199, 390, 449;
F. W. Taussig, "Inventors and MoneyMakers," 216; World's Work, 226. These
quotations were to have been cited in the footnotes, but owing to the author's
entrance upon duties in the Ordnance Department before the manuscript was fully
completed the plan contemplated was not carried out. For the same reason the
author is indebted rather more than otherwise he would have been to members of
The Ronald Press Company's editorial staff. Mr. Conyngton and Mr. Shidle very
kindly prepared the legal portion of the chapter, "The Executive's Legal
Problems," Mr. Shidle in connection with other chapters has also been very
helpful, and Mr. Wade has done much of the work in expanding a single chapter
on "Personal Finance" into the present Part VII.

The author thanks all these co-workers for their interest in cultivating with
him the science of personal management.

E. B. Gowin.

Washington, D. C,
Labor Day, 1918.

CONTENTS

Part I—Today's Work—and Beyond

Chapter

I The Opportunity Of The Executive .

The Big Idea in Business

In Charge of a Billion-Dollar Enterprise

The Twenty-Five Per Cent Man

Opportunity

The Increased Demand for Executives

Noted Business Men Explain Their Advancement*^

Personal Traits Which Brought Promotion

II A Definite Program

The Coherent Program Which Gets Results

Standardization the Key Principle *^

A Policy of Preparedness, Whatever the Present

Position

Exercises

How to Study

Part II—The Basis of Personal System

III Handling Details 21

Victim or Master of Details

How J. Pierpont Morgan Handled Details

Business Knowledge Which Gets Down to Bed-Rock

Systematic Care for Details

A First Aid to the Memory—the Memo

The Defects of a Bound Note-Book

The Loose-Leaf Memo System

Ruled and Printed Memo Sheets

How to Dispose of Memoranda—The Tickler

An Example of the Tickler's Use

Simpler Forms of the Tickler Method

The Newspaper Man's Assignment Book

A Department Store Superintendent's Methods

The Tickler as a Business Getter

Incoming Material

Systematic Filing a Matter of Course in Careful

Business

Apply the Lesson to Your Own Work

The Idea File—Mental Staleness and Its Antidotes

The Retailer Keeps Up-to-Date

Page

3
The Idea File in Operation

An Increased Supply of Facts

A Loose-Leaf Idea File

An Index for Books and Articles

Conclusion

Exercises

Methods You Are Using

Not Too Much Apparatus

A Final Warning

Office Equipment

The Executive's Workshop

The Office Desk

The "Built-to-Order" Desk

The Desk Cleared for Action

The Desk Kept Cleared for Action

"One at a Time, Gentlemen I"

The Day's Work File

A General Manager Analyzes His Work

A Hold-Over File

The Deep Drawer Remodeled Into a File

Results of Good Equipment and Layout

The Disposal of Finished Work

The Matter of Small Wastes

A Place for Each Desk Tool

The Glass Desk Top as an Extra File

An Architect's Office System

The Executive's Devices for Communication

The Telephone, Its Use and Abuse

Dictograph and Telautograph

The Importance of Office Layout

A Real Estate Dealer's Office Problem

What an Investigation Revealed

The Office as Rearranged

Conclusion

Exercises

Simple Forms of the Day's Work File

An Inventory of Your Desk Tools

Other Aids

Lost Motion in Your Own Office

The Private Secretary

John D. Rockefeller's Growth as an Executive

The Standard Oil "Trust"

The Headship of a Big Organization

The Executive's Chief Business

The Utilization of Assistants

The Duties of a Private Secretary

The Money Value of Secretarial Services

The Secretary Promotes His Chief's Efficiency

Selecting a Secretary—The "Hire and Fire" Policy

Where to Find Suitable Applicants

Chapter

Page

The Secretary's Qualifications

The Rating of the Various Applicants

Standardized Conditions for the Secretary

The Secretary's Desk with Respect to Office Layout

Training as the Source of Competent Secretaries

The Best Possible Results from a Given Cost

A Special Training Course

Handling Correspondence Without Dictation

A Knowledge of the Company's Business

Instructions by the Executive

The Developing of Initiative and Responsibility

The Complaint That Secretaries Do Not Think

The Unsystematic Man Hard to Satisfy

William A. Field Defines Executive Success

A Training School for the Coming Executive

Exercises

The Waste of Petty Annoyances

Important and Unimportant Tasks

VI A Serviceable Memory S4

The Tool Which Is Used Most of All

The Memory that Gets Results

Improving the Memory

The Man Who Remembers Is He Who Knows How

Why "Memory Systems" Have Long Flourished

The Operation of a Typical Memory System

Curious Attempts to Strengthen the Memory

Thurlow Weed's Method

A Wasteful Method

1. Become Thoroughly Interested

2. Be a Specialist, Ignorant of Many Things

3. Concentrate Upon the Essentials of Your

Specialty

4. Master as You Go

Rules Of Impression

[merged small][ocr errors][merged small][merged small][merged small][merged
small][ocr errors][merged small][ocr errors][merged small]

Chapter Page

3. Trust Your Memory

4. Forget the Useless

Summary of Rules

Exercises

Conditions of Memorizing

Methods of Memorizing

Not Just Plodding, But Planning

Part III—The Dispatch of a Day's Work

VII Planning The Day's Work 107

The Economy of Well-Planned Activities

On the Offensive

Definite Accomplishment

Colonel Roosevelt An Orderly Worker

A Survey of the Day's Work

The Elements of Planning

The Waste of Unplanned Work

The Assistance of Systematic Planning

Illustrations of Systematic Planning

Some Typical Daily Plans

1. Daily Program of Auditor for Street Railway

Company

2. A Manufacturer's Schedule

3. A Sales Manager's Schedule

4. A Bank Cashier's Schedule

5. Daily Working Plan of Manager of Mail-Order

Sales

6. Duties Recommended for Schedule By Carroll

D. Murphy, in System

Preparing Your Plan

Classifying Your Work

Applying the Analysis in a Definite Plan

A Trouble Man's Daily Program

Better Results from Planning

How Much Time Is This Task Worth?

Why Write Out the Plan?

How Far Ahead to Plan

Making the Plan Fit Your Needs

The Matter of Personality

When to Prepare the Plan

Wide Applicability of Planning

Exercises

Is Planning Practicable?

Planning for Others

Planning in Daily Life

VIII Doing The Day's Work 135

Putting the Plan Through

Marvelous System of Dispatching

Chapter

Page

Human Traits of the Long Ago

Inefficiency Still With Us

Opponents the Systematic Worker Must Overcome

The Procrastinator

The Big Dreamy Idea

An Always Available Stock of Raw Materials

Yesterday is Dead; Be Done With It

The Waste-Basket as an Ally

Dilatory Co-operation

Interruptions—By House Men

A General Office Schedule

The Problem of Handling Callers

The Selection of Callers

The Growing Aggressiveness of Callers

How Shall the Executive Protect His Time?

Shortening the Caller's Stay

Closing the Interview

The Distress Signal

Who Else Is Waiting?

President Roosevelt and His Callers

Dominating the Interview

Exercises

Wasting Time

Your Own Record

Improvement

IX Short-cuts 159

Amateur Versus Expert

A Lesson from Animal Psychology

Short-Cuts Represent Perfected Methods

Conservation of Time

Business Time for Business

Some Things Not to Do

Supervising from the Office

Words versus Check Marks

Use of Both Hands

Head versus Heels

Starting and Stopping

Day's Work Plan for the Secretary

Filing Short-Cuts

Use of Symbols

Preparation for Dictation

Speed in Dictating

Elimination of Wasteful Details

Dispatch in Handling Correspondence

Color Schemes

Carbon Copies

Machines for Dictation

The Automatic Correspondent

100 Per Cent Efficiency

The Fire Department a Personal Incentive

The Daily Use of Short-Cuts

Chapter Page

Exercises

Short-Cuts in Use

A Test of Progress

The Short-Cut Point of View

X Efficiency Habits 177

Henry Ford and The Radiator Cap

Justifiable Expenditure

The Nervous System a Business Organization

Habit is Standardized Nerve Action

The Efficient versus the Inefficient Way

Double Waste

Productive Power Capitalized

Habits Inevitable; Which Kind?

Thought Followed by Action

Keeping Fully "Sold" On a Subject

The Road to Full Efficiency

The Influence of Habit Upon Creative Work

Exercises

Standardizing Good Practice

Benjamin Franklin's Method

Applying the Principle

Part IV—The Thinker in Business

XI Initiative And Vision 195

Routine and Constructive Thought

The Perception of Opportunity

1. Exploitation of Natural Resources

2. Development of Inventions

3. Improvements in Production and Distribution

4. Fluctuations in Values

5. Supplying Known Wants

Needs and the Law of Service

The Many Roads Upward

The Business Man's Task

Alertness a Business Asset

Pioneer versus Followers

The Power of Initiative

The Fresh Viewpoint

The Raw Material of Ideas

The Search for Business Ideas

Imagination, a Quality of Empire Builders

Development of New Ideas

Thought as a Business Force

Exercises

Intelligent Observation

Keeping the Mind Alert and Active

XII The Feasible Project 215

The Commercial Instinct

Chapter

Edison and Commercial Availability

Reflection Performs an Essential Service

Andrew Carnegie on Business Judgment

The "Sure Thing" Delusion

The Risks of Business

The Problem-Solving Type of Mind

The Mastery of a Business

Getting at the Essentials

Keeping the Right Road

Lord Bacon's Warning

The Danger of Deceiving Oneself

Procedure at the General Electric Plant

The Systematic Elimination of Risk

Superior Reasoning Ability in Practice

Exercises

First Ideas

The Sifting of Ideas

XIII Tests Of Reasoning

Exact Knowledge Needed

Sources of Information

Testing the Evidence

Systematic and Accurate Procedure

Analysis for the Executive

What Does the Idea Mean?

Competence of the Witness

The Idea Itself

Correctness of the Process of Reasoning

Correctness of Premises

Incorrect Sequence—Analogy

Incorrect Sequence—Evidence Not Sufficient

Factors Overlooked

Validity of These Tests

Exercises

Problems in Analysis

Mill's Five Canons

Part V—Aids to Efficient Control of Business

XIV Control Through Statistics

The Problem of Control

The Securing of Statistical Data

Adequate Control at Reduced Cost

1. Standardized Forms

2. Essential Data

3. Samples

4 Up-to-date Information

5. Summarized Reports

6. Statistical Analysis

Outside Conditions: Business Barometers

Chapter Page

The Cycles of Business

The Study of Fundamentals

A Preliminary Analysis

The Volume of Business—Bank of Clearings

Further Data on Volume of Business

Other Fundamental Statistics

■The Choice of Barometers

The Sources of Statistics

The Interpretation of Fundamental Statistics

Significance of the Time Element

Forecasting Made Possible by Statistical Knowledge

Exercises

Forecasting

XV Graph1c Presentat1on 272

Information in Usable Form

The Mobilization of Business

Speeding Up the Judgment

Graphs in the Great War

Why the Executive Uses Graphs

Maps

Increasing the Map's Usefulness

"Boards" Which Present Facts Graphically

Control-Boards

Geometric Figures as Aids in Presentation

Charts Which Confuse

Curves, the Graphic Device Par Excellence

Standards for Graphic Presentation

Qualities Essential to the Executive

Exercises

Data You Need

Graphic Presentation of this Material

Part VI—Personal Dynamics

XVI Phys1cal Energy 293

Pushing the Project Through

The Victories of Physique

The Wastes of Belovv-Par Condition

Overlooked Resources

What Shall Our Physical Ideals Be?

Sources of Physical Energy

Food and Normal Diet

The Three Chief Classes of Foods

Food Selection and the Appetite

Restoring the Natural Appetite

How Thorough Mastication Aids the Digestion

Air as an Energizer

Invigorating versus Devitalizing Air

Making the Best Use of Air

Chapter

Pace

Bodily Poisons

Don't Increase the Handicap

Mouth Sanitation

Constipation, the Anti-efficiency Malady

Exercise and Energy

"Spectatoritis" a Serious American Disease

Six Essentials for a System of Exercise

Maintaining Good Posture

Lessons from Our Army

Rules for Health Culture

Exercises

Walter Camp's Suggestion Exercises

Health Culture Chart

A Hard Drive Toward the Goal

The Business of Mind Building

Bizarre Schemes for Developing the Will

What Will-power Really Is, and How Cultivated

Fires Which Are Damped

The Ruling Passion

A Mind Made Up, and Moving Forward

The Ruling Passion Supplemented

Yourself on Record—Cottingham's Campaign

The Salesmen's Response

Keeping One's Goal in Sight

The Atmosphere of Achievement

A Man's Opinion of Himself

Faith in Self

Attitudes of Power

Self-Discipline

Will Training Summarized

Exercises

The Art of Mental Economy

The Tired Person is Poisoned

A Record From Life's Firing Line

Fatigue and Inefficiency

Definite Accomplishment

Habits and Specialization

Introspection versus Objectivity

Worry, the Policy of a Spendthrift

Zones of Low Fatigue

The Means for Recreation

"Vacations Daily"

Sleeplessness and Its Cure

The Gospel of Relaxation

Conservation versus Waste

Conservation versus Waste—Results

Repose as an Ideal

XVII Power Of Will

320

[merged small][ocr errors]

Chapter

Page

The Elimination of Distractions

Cases Decided Once for All

A Little Humor Now and Then

The Spirit of Youth

Fads versus Common Sense

Exercises

"Planning" Mental Effort

A Self-Grading Chart

Part VII—Personal Finance

Pushing a Business Project

The "Help Yourself" Plan

Growth of the Business

In Business for Oneself

Requisites of a Successful Enterprise

Testing the Soundness of an Enterprise

The Factor of Management

Sufficient Capital

XX Thrift As A Working Policy 371

Financial Preparedness

Building Solidly

American Habits of Waste

Value of Thrift

Plans Suggested for Saving

The Family Standard of Living

The Productive Use of Funds

Exercises

XXI The Art Of Investing 382

The Business Man as an Investor

Qualities of an Ideal Investment

Sources of Information as to Investments

I. Diversifying Investments

II. Buying Periods and Selling Periods

III. Do Not Speculate

IV. Slow but Sure Investments

V. Avoid All Get-Rich-Quick Schemes

Exercises

Some Personal Questions as to Investing Money

[ocr errors][merged small][ocr errors]
[merged small][merged small][ocr errors][merged small]

Chapter

Confidence a Business Asset

Borrowing for Business Purposes

Financing By Means of Partnership

Selection of a Partner

The Corporation

Adequacy of Capital

Exercises

Amount of Capital Needed

Borrowing

Partnership

Incorporation

Building Up the Business

XXIII The Executive's Legal Problems 400

Help versus Hindrance

The Law of the Land

Relation of Law to Business

The Law of Contracts

The Law of Agency

Business Organization

The Law Relating to Your Own Line of Business

Wherein the Law is Lacking—Procedure Slow

Complexity

Variety of Sources

How to Secure a Knowledge of Law

How to Avoid Litigation

The Lawyer and the Business Man

Lawyer's Fees

The Rules of Finance

Elementary Rules of Financing

Law Books for Business Men

Part VIII—A Man Among Men

XXIV Team-work 417

Business Today Beyond the One-Man Stage

Reaching the Consumer

Large-Scale Production

Advantages of the Big Business

The Organization Point of View

The Business of Being an Executive

Rules of the Business Game

Principles of Scientific Management

Charting the Manager's Responsibilities

Outlines of Specific Duties

Exercises

Careful Adjustment of Functions

A Test of Executive Capacity

[merged small][merged small][merged small][merged small][ocr errors][merged
small][merged small][merged small][ocr errors][merged small][ocr errors][merged
small][merged small][ocr errors]

Chapter

Economics

Business Law

The Scientific Method

Health and Mind Culture

Natural and Social Sciences

Biography

Correspondence Courses

Current Publications

Figure Page

1. The Tickler 27

2. Memo Cards for Tickler 29

3. The Memo System Devised by a Busy Department Store

Superintendent 30

4. Alphabetical Filing 32

5. An Index Card for Books and Magazines 38

6. A Desk Built to Order 45

7. The Day's Work File 47

8. An Extension of the Day's Work File 49

9. The Center Desk Drawer Partitioned 52

10. Schedule for Desk Glass 54

11. A Real Estate Dealer's Office (a) Poorly Arranged, (b) Well

Arranged 58

12. A Matter of Organization 67

13. The Various Steps in Memory Culture are Here Summarized 101

14. Weekly Schedule of Work. (Used by W. F. Ingersoll) . . 114

15. Schedule for Daily Work 117

16. A General Manager's Daily Order of Business 130

17. Office Schedule 144

18. Interdepartmental Schedule 146

19. "Ammunition" for Breaking Through the Executive's Defense 148

20. Checking System 162

21. Card Used to Save Time of Dictating 170

22. Brain and Spinal Cord, with the Thirty-one Pairs of Spinal

Nerves 180

23. The Elements of Costs 252

24. The Securing of Statistical Data 253

25. General Layout of a Unit Record 255

26 (a). Babson's "Compositplot" 267

26 (b). Brookmire's Graph 268

27. A Railroad's Operating Ratio 281

28. Detailed Time Study of Two Operators Labeling Packages 282

29. Factory Production of Shoes Shown "in Round Numbers" . 283

30. Control Curves Showing Gross Earnings of Three Factories 284

31. Curves Used as a Means of Executive Statistical Control . . 285

32. A Nerve Test 339

33. The Channels of Distribution 419

34. Organization of a Factory 425

35. (a) and (b). The Executive's Position 430

36. "My Duties" Analyzed 431

TEST CHARTS

Chart Page

1. How I Am Handling Details 40

2. Standardizing the Apparatus for Handling Details ..... 41

3. An Inventory of Desk Tools 62

4. Whose Work? 82

5. Securing Best Results from the Private Secretary 83

6. My Experience with— 132

7. Planning My Work 133

8. My Record as a Dispatcher 158

9. The Results of Twenty-four Working Days Compiled from

the Records of Five Specialty Salesmen 175

10. The Systematization of the Day's Work is Here Reviewed

in Nine General Questions 189

11. Capitalizing Attainments as Habits 192

12. How Profits are Being Made in My Field 213

13. History of Ten Ventures 229

14. Six Forecasts 270

15. A Personal Forecast 271

16. Health Culture Chart 318

17. The Culture of Will 336

18. Mental Economy's Self-Grading Chart 360

19. Chart for Self-Grading on Saving Money 381

20. Sixteen Tests of Executive Capacity 433

21. Points of Co-operation 447 DEVELOPING EXECUTIVE ABILITY

PART I

TODAY'S WORK—AND BEYOND

Under scientific management the best man rises to the top more certainly and
more rapidly than ever before.— Frederick Winslow Taylor.

Opportunity

But, someone suggests upon looking over the foregoing list, granted that these
are deficiencies, is not the average man still larger than the average job?
Could an additional 100 per cent man find an enterprise to swing?

The United States is still a growing country. Its citizens, because their
standard of life is high, with every indication of becoming higher, have many
wants, and the growth of population which bids fair to continue for decades
thus affords business men an unrivaled market. In addition to these domestic
needs there are world needs of enormous proportions. Only progressive methods
in production, selling, accounting, and financing can meet adequately such
market demands.

The managers who aim both to devise and operate these progressive methods have
undertaken tasks which tax to the utmost their capacity. With industry led by
giant corporations, and trade relations established with all parts of the
world, strong men are being sought to bear the burden of management. When
within the organization an elaborate division of labor involving both men and
machines must be planned, the intricacy of the task calls for thought power of
a high order. Because each man's effort is dependent upon the activities of
many others, the speed exacted in output, the promptness required in meeting
every situation, render alert- , ness and reliability qualities highly prized.
Finally, with competition sharpening, our business centers becoming more and
more crowded, and the markets of the world being sought, the man able most
efficiently to produce quantity and quality at low cost, finds his services
everywhere in demand regardless of the line of business he is in. Opportunity
now as heretofore treads hard upon ability.

The Increased Demand for Executives

This observation receives general support in statements

recently made public by the heads of twenty-five large corporations. It
appeared from these reports that:

1. 358 vacancies in executive positions had developed within a very short time.

2. Men to fill 142 of these vacancies could be secured only from outside the
organizations.

The situation was being met in their own organizations, certain executives
explained, by:

"Promotion and added duties." Ralph Peters, President

of Long Island Railroad Company.
"The taking over of work by other executives." J.

Franklin McElwain, W. H. McElwain Company.
"The additional work has been largely absorbed by those

remaining, made possible by reorganizing to some

extent, and the elimination of unnecessary operations."

J. N. Willys, Willys-Overland Company.
"We consolidated positions and increased the work and

responsibilities of remaining men." P. T. Wharton,

Deere and Company.

What do we read between these lines, and similar lines that could be penned of
organizations everywhere?

This is a time when as never before every man has his chance, and when it is
his public duty to make the most of his chance. Under the imperative of war
thousands of men in executive positions—men in large positions and in small
ones, young men and mature—were called into government service. Those who were
left in charge of business organizations were practically in the government
service also. It was not only their opportunity, but their responsibility, to
improve themselves, for they had to keep the fires under the boiler and
navigate the ship in war time and must now continue to do so in the difficult
time after the war.

This is a time when every man should do his utmost, a time when the demand for
our enlarged capacity to serve assumes somewhat the nature of a call to world
service.

What, then, should be our viewpoint concerning opportunity and personal
accomplishment? The highest salaried man in the world expressed it when, upon
being asked how he had succeeded, quietly answered:

"I haven't succeeded. No real man ever succeeds. There is always a larger goal
ahead." Under the conditions of business as they are evolving today this is
literally true; there are always larger goals ahead, for every man who has the
power to grow.

Noted Business Men Explain Their Advancement

The reader will agree, very likely, that he is not accomplishing what in
justice to himself he knows he ought to do. The question which naturally arises
then is: How utilize to the full every resource at my command?

Let us put this question to several captains of industry; they have all
displayed conspicuous ability as managers, having risen from the ranks, and
their own views concerning the causes of their notable advancement ought to
prove illuminating.

Thomas E. Wilson, President of Wilson and Company: "I am no brainier nor wiser
than any number of other people. My whole success is traceable to the fact that
I have enjoyed my work and have given to it the best in me. No job was ever too
big for me to tackle. That is the foundation of success nine times out of
ten—having confidence in yourself and applying yourself with all your might to
your work."

A. C. Bedford, President of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey: "The first
promotion I attribute to my willingness to do more than was expected of me and
to the insight I then obtained into business methods. This gave me a grasp and
a vision such as the average clerk in an office too often fails to cultivate
because of his machine-like performance of his allotted tasks."

Theodore N. Vail, President of the American Telegraph and Telephone Company: "I
was never unwilling when young, to do another man's work, and then, when older,
never willing to do anything somebody else could do better for meJ I was always
fond enough of detail to thoroughly master what I was undertaking—and then
hated detail enough to not bother with it when I got to the treatment of the
general subject."

Samuel Insull, President Commonwealth Edison Company: "Non-success is often due
to inability to see things, to note intelligently what other people are doing,
to learn what is what, and to grasp new opportunities. They don't seem to keep
their eye on the ball."

I Henry Ford, President Ford Motor Company: "There is /one principle which a
man must follow if he wishes to succeed, / and that is to understand human
nature. I am convinced by / my own experience, and by that of others, that if
there is any secret of success it lies in the ability to get another person's
point of view and see things from his angle as well as from your own."

James B. Duke, Ex-President American Tobacco Company: "I had confidence in
myself. I said to myself: 'If John D. Rockefeller can do what he is doing in
oil, why should I not do it in tobacco?' I resolved from the time I was a mere
lad to do a big business. I loved business better than anything else. I worked
from early morning to late at night— I was sorry to have to leave off at night
and glad when morning came so that I could get at it again."

Personal Traits Which Brought Promotion

Let us supplement these statements of the captains of industry by the replies
several executives gave to this question: Think of the three best men in your
business—what qualities brought them promotion? The answers follow:

"Desire for authority and responsibility, backed by sufficient will-power."

"Resourcefulness in emergencies."

"Pushed the work always, never let it push him. Was a live wire for others to
look at."

"A real diplomat liked by all the men. Enthusiastic— took personal interest in
the business, and got the best out of everything."

"Constructive initiative coupled with the application of good common sense
added to whatever natural abilities a man may have, achieve success—and deserve
it."

"Kept studying our business, and training himself and every man under him all
the time. We had to advance him or he'd have been stolen by some competitor. He
is cheap at $15,000 anyway."

"Stick-to-itiveness, when the work piled high and the clock struck the hour.
Didn't 'go up in the air' at just criticism. Was amenable to suggestions and
advice. Careful and accurate. Able to take the handling of some routine without
being supervised every minute."

"Ability to handle men. Initiative. Familiar with my system of records and my
desires as regards correspondence. Congenial—and as much interested in the work
as I; wellbalanced disposition; being able to handle everything with a view to
the best results regardless of personalities or obstructions."

CHAPTER II

A DEFINITE PROGRAM

Only by a system—that is, by something that will work automatically, precisely,
accurately—can one secure the fullest returns from his striving.—Walter H.
Cottingham, President, Sherwin-Williams Company.

The Coherent Program Which Gets Results

The statements explaining the success of individuals, cited in the preceding
chapter, are all filled with human interest. Yet the man anxious to advance
does not find in such statements the coherent program he seeks. They are
isolated comments, while it is the well-laid campaign which yields victory in
personal management as elsewhere. Systematic planning of such a campaign means
long and careful study. It involves:

I. Learning and comparing the views of notable business men concerning their
own careers, their methods of work, the lessons experience has taught them.
These statements may be gleaned from many sources: interviews, biographies and
autobiographies, magazines and newspapers, legal testimony, conversations,
correspondence. They should be supplemented and corrected by the comments of
competent observers.

2. Observing men for oneself, analyzing with care every salient item about
them. Of supreme value are the truly great business executives, those pioneers
in personal efficiency whose achievements and methods bring joy to the
discriminating observer. Yet in this study the failures, and the mediocre, are
not to be ignored, for, while their experience is negative, it has been costly
to these persons and its charge should not be re-levied. In discovering what to
do a knowledge of what not to do has its value.

The man who has made any progress whatever in business has of course been
making such observations for himself already. He is now to do it more
systematically and to apply scientific principles.

3. Drawing freely upon a number of related sciences. Physiology, psychology,
education, ethics, economics, and business administration particularly, contain
material invaluable to the study of personal management. Organizing this
material into a coherent system, that is to say, analyzing and classifying its
details and deducing general principles.

This part of the work a busy man can hardly find time to do for himself. Nor
could he trust fully his own perspective. He needs the help of a good book
which will present essentials in compact and reliable form.

4. Finally, most important of all, making this system one's own, its superior
effectiveness so woven into the personality as to appear a heritage from
nature.

This, of course, must be the contribution of the reader, the student, himself.
The fit of the book depends on how well it is shaped by the individual to his
own needs.

Standardization the Key Principle J

The development of first-class practice in the management of oneself, can be
completed at a very great saving in time and effort provided we utilize
consistently a certain key principle—standardization.

There is always a one best way of doing everything.

In the yards of the Bethlehem Steel Company this one best way was introduced
into shoveling. Without longer hours or harder work, output was increased from
sixteen tons to fifty-nine, wages from $1.15 to $1.88, and ton cost to the
company, all expenses included, was reduced from seven and one-fifth cents to
three and one-third.

In the stenographic department of a large office standardization resulted in
wage increases averaging twenty-two per cent, a cost reduction from $7.69 per
thousand square inches of typed matter to $2.58, a lessened overhead and a
marked gain in accuracy.

In a sales organization rule-of-thumb was attaining an average business per
salesman of $18,000; standardization with regard to personnel, territory, sales
canvasses, and supervision brought this average up to $39,000.

Practically every forward-looking man in business is an adherent of this
principle as regards the operation of machinery and the direction of the labor
of subordinates. As the head of a personal enterprise in which production,
sales, accounts, and finance are necessary activities, the executive can gain
as much from standardization as in the operation of his factory's machinery.

The situation which confronts men in business, consequently, can be summarized
in the form of two proportions:

1. Opportunity in the form of increased need for executive ability is today
general, with prospects for the future distinctly encouraging; and

2. Standardization affords the method by which to "cash in" on these
opportunities because it means seeking out and putting into operation the one
best way of doing things.

A Policy of Preparedness, Whatever the Present Position

A certain persistent error cuts short the career of many a junior executive and
chains numberless clerks to their routine tasks, namely, the view .that while
the heads of big organizations must of course be highly skilled it does not
matter a great deal how men lower ijLthe ranks do their own work. Once we have
been promoted to those positions, the lower rank person possibly adds to the'
observation, it will be time to train our powers.

The man who puts off developing his capacity until high rank has been attained
thereby locks the door against himself and throws away the key. By his own act,
he condemns himself to sweat under routine burdens like a stupid packhorse, to
spend his days as a mere drudge, and to let die unrealized his inherent impulse
toward high achievement.

The department head in a big corporation, the man at the head of a small
organization, have in today's activities, no matter how limited their scope may
seem, a complete training course in management, if they care to make it so.
Rockefeller, Carnegie, Harriman, Marshall Field, and the other builders of
American business had made their careers long before they were operating on a
large scale, before they were in the world's eye, because they had already
fashioned and matured the use of their methods'.

The matters most important for executive training as they will be taken up in
the chapters which follow, have been grouped under these headings:

1. The Basis of Personal System

2. The Dispatch of a Day's Work

3. The Thinker in Business

4. Personal Dynamics

5. Personal Finance

6. A Man Among Men

Where can be discovered a position which does not require in some measure the
exercise of the powers here analyzed and described, which leading executives
possess in high degree? The proprietor of a tiny factory or the junior
executive who feels himself still far from the centers of business power can so
ground himself today in the principles of management that the present position,
because the man who holds it has grown in capacity, becomes a stepping stone to
better things. This, the correct point of view, transforms clerkships into
training places for managerships, managerships into training places for
corporation headships. The business career itself becomes, or it should be, a
continuous apprenticeship.

The policy of preparedness is the policy of foresight and vision. Its goal is
"The Beyond" but it sees in "Today's Work" the essential steps to take now.

Exercises

How to Study

In order to become personally efficient in business, mere longings or even high
ambitions will not suffice; you must move forward according to a definite
program.

"Usually when a man falls short of success," says C. D. Peacock, President of
the C. D. Peacock Company, "the trouble lies in some specific direction.
Whatever the fault, I believe that men could educate themselves out of it, if
they really resolved to do so and went about it intelligently."

Let us take up here the problem of how to study. The right method will not only
greatly increase your mental output in pursuing the subject now under
consideration, but prove of much benefit in studying the annual reports of your
company, articles in business magazines, lectures delivered before your club,
and the like. ySet up a Specific Purpose for Your Study. With a sheet of paper
before you, jot down answers to these questions: What is my chief purpose in
studying this subject? What minor purposes have I in studying it? What benefits
am I to derive? Do not destroy this memo, but keep it at hand so that in
passing from chapter to chapter you may see the gradual achievement of your
purpose.

Supplement the Author's Statements with Your Own Thoughts. What you seek is not
knowledge, mere facts, but a science of achievement which applies to your own
work. In reading these chapters you must be an active partner. "When you come
to a good book," says John Ruskin, "you must ask yourself, 'Am I inclined to
work as an Australian miner would? Are my pickaxes and shovels in good order,
and am I in good trim myself, my sleeves well up to the elbow, and my breath
good, and my temper?' Your pickaxes are your own care, wit, and learning; your
smelting furnace is your own thoughtful soul. Do not hope to get at any good
author's meaning without these tools, and that fire."

Turn to a page that you have just read, page 14, for example.

Take a second sheet of paper (use paper, for this encourages more definite
thinking), then running down this page, line by line, note the various ideas of
your own which supplement the author's statements. Take for instance: "A policy
of preparedness, whatever the present position." What ideas does this suggest
to you? When you have reached the last line, survey the two, the printed page
and your list. In working out a science of achievement adapted to your own
problems, what is your opinion of yourself as an active partner?

Get at the Essential Ideas. Ideas are not all of equal value; they form no
plain but a series of peaks and valleys. Skilled readers like Carlyle, who was
able to master a dozen books in a day, mount these peaks of thought in mapping
out their intellectual journeys. Obedient to no false notions of thoroughness,
they seek only essentials. When these are found they should be pondered over,
memorized, woven into your mind, in short, made your own.

On a third sheet of paper make a brief outline of this chapter, numbering in
order what you regard as the main ideas advanced, and indenting under each of
these some of the minor points made. In reading later chapters use some system
of marking the page which will accomplish this same result. For example, a
single vertical mark along the margin may indicate that this particular part is
worth reviewing, a double line that it should be thoroughly mastered, a triple
line that it ought to be memorized. Or sentences summarizing important ideas
may be enclosed in parentheses, or underscored, or doubly underscored.

The particular methods employed are open to choice, but the principle is clear;
to get at the heart of a book you must cultivate the sense for relative values.
What this plan really amounts to is the requirement that you apply the
principles of organization, with which you are familiar in business, to the
work done by your own mind.

Apply the Test of Experience to What You Read. You will have laid before you
the experience of many executives. Nevertheless, what you really desire is not
their ideas or the author's ideas, but solely those ideas which will bring
results for you. Your judgment, calm, unbiased, judicial, must here be the
test. As you read sentence after sentence, ask yourself such questions as "Is
this reasonable? What has been my experience upon this point? Is this
experience of mine extensive enough to warrant me in accepting, or rejecting,
this statement now?" In later chapters it will be well to use some marking
scheme, as an "O K" for things you distinctly approve, a "?" for things
doubtful, an "X" for disapproval.

Supposing you do thus mark a chapter today, would you upon rereading this
chapter a year hence agree fully with the judgments now made? Why not?
Answering these two questions thoughtfully will guard you against dogmatic and
arbitrary judgments, from idle fault-finding or mere quibbling. As Sir Francis
Bacon advises so admirably, "Read not to contradict and confute, nor to believe
and take for granted, nor to find talk and discourse, but to weigh and
consider."

When you do weigh and consider, when you apply to everything you read the test
of your own experience, you are forever free from servility and slavish
adherence to authority. Such study develops in you open-mindedness, initiative,
self-reliance, self-control—qualities emphatically worth while to every
business man.

Put the Ideas You Have Gained into Use. Of what value, finally, is any idea to
you? Does it not depend upon what it will do for you? If it will not serve you,
if, in short, it will not work, then it is like dead stock on a retailer"s
shelves or capital sunk in out-of-date machines. But the result-getting idea is
like a mill constantly grinding fine flour. Here we have the test—an idea's
value is what it will produce for you—but the only way to apply this test is
through actual practice.

PART II
THE BASIS OF PERSONAL SYSTEM

/ have never known of a great business success without a personality. I have
never known of a great personality without a system.—Henry C. Lytton,
President, The Hub.

One should supervise details, but not let them absorb him. Frank W. Woolworth.

CHAPTER III

HANDLING DETAILS

Have a well-considered system of doing things, definite and businesslike, not
an imitation of something else, but one designed for your own use.—John Calder,
President, International Motor Company.

Victim or Master of Details

A man does not advance far in business before its burden of detail commences to
press upon him. The typewriter has simplified correspondence, but it brings
more letters. The telephone is a wonderful device, but it means more calls. The
mail and express services, the telegraph, railroads, and steamships—and within
his organization, advertising, division of labor, large-scale production—are
all indispensable in modern business, but by their weight of detail they all
multiply the burden of the man who must carry the enterprise. The first step in
personal efficiency for the executive consists in learning how best to handle
this burden of detail.

The day's routine is alike omnipresent, necessary, and yet insidious in its
ultimate influence. The standardization of the day's routine, accordingly,
affords the true basis of personal system.

How J. Pierpont Morgan Handled Details

The following incident in the life of the late J. Pierpont Morgan has often
been misinterpreted with reference to the great financier's way of handling
details.

One day in the Federal Building, Mr. Lamb as opposing lawyer was
cross-examining Mr. Morgan about the purchase

of $15,000,000 of Northern Pacific stock in 1901. The financier sat on one side
of the table; the lawyer on the other.

"How much did that stock cost?"

"Haven't any idea."

"How much did your firm make out of it?"
"I don't know."

"Well, did you make one million or ten million?"

"I tell you I don't know. I don't attend to the details. I said 'Buy it.'
Steele knows about the details; he'll tell you about that!"

Now it is important not to miss the point here. There are those who quickly
read into the attitude of the financier an easy solution for the problem of
details. Ignore them, scorn them as nuisances to be brushed aside! Such
observers overlook the closing sentence of the significant little dialogue.
Although Mr. Morgan did not know the details, Steele did!

Mr. Morgan when he made those remarks was a battlescarred veteran of finance,
the ripened product of a career of masterly administration. Years before, as a
young bank clerk, he dug relentlessly into the details of each task with which
he was entrusted. Now he selected competent and capable men to watch those
details with close care so that he no longer needed to give them his personal
attention.

Business Knowledge Which Gets Down to Bed-Rock

The man who at no time in his career pays attention to detail builds his house
upon the sand. The storms of adversity which some time or other test every
business structure will detect certain weaknesses in his organization and it
will fall.

"Although everything is being done on a larger scale," observes James Logan of
the United States Envelope Company, "there never was a time when the smallest
details of a business had to be watched so closely as at present."

The organizations which forge ahead today in the race for business supremacy
tolerate less and less, on the part of those connected with them, rash
undertakings, "I believe's," and "Guess so's." Their executives find it
increasingly true that in order to carry their responsibilities they must
possess a business knowledge which gets down to bed-rock. Bed-rock in this
particular sense means the stratum of fundamental, unavoidable details which
lies at the bottom of every great business structure. In order to do his own
work well, it is essential for the executive to know the various elements and
processes which enter into the business.

It is a symptom of wasteful nervousness and inefficiency for a department
manager to sharpen pencils, fill fountain pens, or run errands. It is just as
wasteful for him to spend his strength on the minute steps of production,
distribution, etc. But in order to arrange work for subordinates it is
necessary to comprehend their duties.

The executive sees the duties of his subordinates, not as they see them, but in
the bigger relation of all the different cogs and wheels to the vast business
machine. The essential thing is not so much that the chief should be able to
put himself in the employee's place as that he should be able to place the
employees, every one, in their proper place.

Systematic Care for Details

That is to say, if the executive engulfs himself in a sea of details, it is
fatal to the business and to his career; if he ignores them, it is equally
fatal. The solution of the problem must come through standardization, proper
distribution of responsibility, system. Details must be watched, but plans must
be devised for watching them with maximum accuracy and minimum effort.

This subject, it should be noted, is of even greater importance for the
executive who is on his way up—a department manager or the head of a small but
growing concern—than for the man already at the top of a great organization.
For such an ambitious, growing man the following maxims may serve as a guide in
his work of organizing and standardizing his activities:

1. However deep an immersion in details a man's present duties require, the
business career permits a consistent rise until like Morgan, apprenticeship
served, he may eventually hold easy mastery.

2. The rate of his progress, whatever the stage of advancement already reached,
depends largely upon his handling so efficiently the details which fall within
his care—either personally or through wisely directed subordinates—as to have
leisure to do the big thing just above.

A First Aid to the Memory—the Memo

The first rule for economy of time and effort is this: Keep the big things in
mind, the details on paper. The man who does not "make a note of it" is an
intellectual prodigal. He wishes to give his time and attention to the big
things—the $50,000 contract, the proposed trade advance in South America, the
new branch in St. Louis—but scarcely does he concentrate upon these big things
when a forgotten house conference, a broken luncheon engagement, or a misplaced
letter brings him sharply back to routine again.

He needs a first aid to the memory.

Such is the memo system; "make a note of it."

The method is very important in note-making. Henry Ward Beecher jotted down
incessantly upon scraps of paper and the backs of old envelopes the various
points he wanted to remember; but however brilliant Mr. Beecher's sermons were
made by this plan, the medium he employed is open to criticism. Paper can be
arranged in such convenient forms that no one is justified in using odds and
ends.

The Defects of a Bound Note-Book

The bound note-book is, as a usual thing, unsatisfactory. If printed or indexed
according to dates, it may prove convenient as an appointment memo, or, indexed
alphabetically, it serves well enough for names and addresses. But it soon
becomes filled with useless, out-of-date material, through which one must thumb
in order to find what one wants. Worse still, only by chance does one make
notes of things in the same order in which he prefers to take them up later on;
yet notes which are bound are continually seeking to dictate the order in which
they shall receive attention. What you want is consecutive order in doing
things, not in making notes of things to do.

The Loose-Leaf Memo System

Loose-leaf, ringed note-books avoid inflexibility, the chief defect of the
bound form. They can be obtained in a variety of sizes and styles. If you carry
the book in your inside coat pocket, as is commonly done, you should avoid the
larger and more bulky styles. It would be advisable also in selecting the size
to consider its relation to a filing system. The book can easily be fitted with
an index, according to date, as for appointments; according to alphabet, as for
names and addresses and telephone numbers; or according to subject, as in the
grocery salesman's price book. It is possible, of course, to use two, or
possibly more, indexes in one book.

A simple leather folder, in which loose sheets may be placed, forms about as
practical a system as any. The 4x6 size is easy to carry in the inside coat
pocket and as the supply of sheets can be replenished at will, it need not be
made bulky. The used sheets are kept on top, the fresh sheets at the bottom,
with a blotter, trimmed to the proper size, as a partition between them.

Still more simple is the vest-pocket note system, merely loose sheets of 3 x 5
paper carried in one of the upper vest pockets and replenished at need. When a
note has been made, the sheet is placed in another pocket, awaiting its final
disposal. The elaborate note systems which we often see have all, no doubt,
their uses; but to many men a brief trial may prove that a few 3x5 cards
slipped into the vest pocket constitute the most convenient method.

Ruled and Printed Memo Sheets

But "system" can be pushed a little further with advantage. In looking over old
memos, a man often discovers himself recording the same sort of information.

Perhaps he is a contractor reporting upon jobs, perhaps a salesman turning in
credit information. In any case, the frequent occurrence of certain items to be
jotted down should warn him that standardization is possible, and lead to the
adoption of a ruled or printed form. The makers of ringed books are able to
supply from stock the forms prepared for day-books, journals, ledgers, sales
records, expense accounts, pay-rolls, mortgage loan records, real estate
listings, and the like. Forms devised for special purposes can be run off by
any printing establishment.

How to Dispose of Memoranda—The Tickler

Less difficulty usually is experienced in making memoranda than in caring for
them after they are made. Not a few men keep a note-book always handy,
religiously jotting down items which they thereupon proceed to forget—a quite
correct procedure, of course. But they then go one step further and completely
ignore the memo. The memo ignored is worse than unmade, because it is
deceptive. Use the tickler!

The tickler is a little filing device, indexed according to dates. It has
usually two sets of guide cards, the tabs of one being printed with figures for
the thirty-one days of the

month, and the other with letters for the twelve months of the year. (See
Figure 1.) As each day and month pass, the respective guide card is set to the
back of the box, out of the way. In order that nothing be filed for Sundays, it
is well at the beginning of each month to remove the Sunday dates from the
index. When one looks at his tickler each morning, that day's tab, with its
contents of things for today, stands at the front of the box.

[graphic]

Figure 1. The Tickler

This tickler is a convenient type. Its index is arranged for the week, but one
numbered consecutively from one to thirty-one could easily be substituted.

An Example of the Tickler's Use

On March 3, let us say, General Manager Smith of the Jones Construction Company
is out among the trade working up new business and late in the afternoon
returns to the office with these notes, his memo system being 3x5 cards carried
in the vest pocket. (See Figure 2.)

The tickler is ready. Mr. Smith dictates to Mr. Crowell a confirmation of an
appointment with the representative of the Kalamazoo Lighting Company arranged
by Mr. Barnes, then drops the card behind the March 15 tab. He files the second
memo relating to a bid from Hedges and Company under the March 4 date, since he
must take up that item with his assistant, Mr. Brown, who has charge of bids.
He has already had a promise from Mr. Carson that specifications from Hastings
and Son will reach him April 27, so he drops that memo behind the April guide,
to remain there until April 1, when it will be set behind the tab number 27.
The fourth memo, relating to a meeting he wishes to attend, he slips behind the
March 29 tab. The general manager's mind is free to deal with big things since
the details have been committed to paper.

A calendar may be combined with the tickler, the type shown in Figure 1 being
especially convenient in this respect. It may be noted that the index shown
here is designed for the days of one week, not for a month. If the other sort
of index proves of more service, as is likely to be the case, it can easily be
substituted.

Simpler Forms of the Tickler Method

The tickler here described is too elaborate for the man who has only a few
details to handle. The desk calendar pad is more convenient for his purposes.
This pad has a separate sheet for each day of the year, which in addition to
such items as the day of the month, the day of the week, the number of days of
the year passed, has blank space for memoranda. By simply turning ahead to the
proper date, entries can be made for any day of the year. Such a pad is less
flexible than the tickler, of course, in that items not attended to on the date
specified must be copied in transferring them to later dates.

An even simpler system, which to the man with a minimum of detail is yet
entirely adequate, is the weekly reminder pad. One sheet serves for a week, and
blank space is provided for each day's items.

The Newspaper Man's Assignment Book

The essential' feature of the tickler system is the fact that everything which
must be attended to on a certain day is

[graphic][merged small]

through its use automatically brought to the attention on that day, and at no
other time.

The assignment book used by newspaper editors may be mentioned in this
connection, since it is really a form of tickler. This book at the beginning of
the year is blank, save for dates. But from day to day as the city editor
learns of political conventions, social events, lectures, public hearings, and
the like, he proceeds to note them in his book for the day

Depts. 4 And 6. Mr. Jones

6/I Provide 6 girls Dept 4—

Sale 6/5. V

6/1 Trans. 3 girls Dept. j to Dept. 4.

6/2 Investigate complaint silk—

Mrs. Harris—on my desk. V 6/2 Get rating of Parmer No.

106 for advance 6/5. V 6/2 Cost of Parcels Post to

Lamelton, L. I.? V 6/3 See why so many errors in

Dept. 4

6/3 See why so many returns in

Dept. 4. V

6/5 See amount of sales made in

Dept. 6 today. V

6/9 Why wasn't call made for
wash goods last Thurs. at
Mrs. James Brown's. 107
W. E. Ave.? V

6/9 Tele. Mrs. Brown and give

reason, apologize. V

6/10 Why is Supply Dept. short

on blotters r V

6/13 Mr. Jones wants entire

Dept. 0 sales for 6/15. V

6/13 Arrange for one more cash

girl Dept. 4, 6/13. V

6/15 Lights in Depts. 4 and 6 need

cleaning. V

6/15 Better porter service for

Depts. 4 and 6. V

6/16 Have windows repaired—

hard to raise. V

6/16 Mr. Jones wants fan in his

office. V

6/17 Mr. Jones will give 3 girls

for Receiving Room. V

6/17 Mr. Jones 10 girls for Mon-
day sale on tables. V

(a)

June 9, 1918

Get s girls for sale dresses next

Sat. Dept. 29.
Dept. 30 wants 3 extra stock girls

today only.
Dept. 36 needs 3 or 4 more sales-

people Sat. See why paper chute so dusty. See if Engineer repaired dumb-waiter

and floor. Tell carpenter to repair packing desk

and floor.

Have all lights cleaned on 3rd fl.—
dirty.

Ask Mr. Trinks about towel supply-
Broken glass on table and fl.—repair.
Miss Smith complains slow delivery
Bronx.

Are girls in Dept. 14 on time morn-
ings?

Advance salary tomorrow Miss Neil
No. I8it.

Trans, next Mon. Miss Ahl, 2149, to
Dept. 36.

Why wasn't call made last Thurs.

for wash goods Mrs. James Brown,

107 W. E. Ave.? Tele. Mrs. Brown and give reason,

apologize.

(b)

Figure 3. The Memo System Devised by a Busy Department Store

Superintendent

scheduled. Later on as these dates are reached, such items serve as assignments
for reporters. This simple device, if used methodically, insures well-filled
columns to the readers and frequently a valuable "scoop" to the paper.

A Department Store Superintendent's Methods

The system devised by E. A. Colby, who as superintendent of Lord and Taylor's
large department store necessarily handles much detail, merits attention as
another special form of the tickler. On his rounds through the store
Superintendent Colby carries a small loose-leaf memo book, with a page reserved
for each department; the number and the name of the department head appear at
the top. (See Figure 3a.) When a department head makes a request, the
superintendent turns to the page designated, enters the date, the request, and
the date when action is desired.

Upon Mr. Colby's return to the office his secretary transcribes the various
items upon sheets of the same size but dated consecutively, entering each item
upon the second sheet according to the time when action upon it is desired. For
example, Mr. Jones, called upon June 1, makes two requests, one of them for
immediate action, which the secretary enters upon the sheet for that day, the
other for four days later, which is entered upon the June 5 page. Every
morning, therefore, Superintendent Colby has before him the list of items
which, accumulating upon this page for some time past, demand action today.
(See Figure 3b.) By glancing at the sheets of later date he can tell at any
time what items have been scheduled for these days and make his plans
accordingly.

"My assistant uses the same system," adds Mr. Colby. ''In this way I am
constantly aware of what he is doing, and should he or I or both of us be
absent for any reason, anyone could pick up the sheet for that day and proceed
with our work in good order."

The Tickler as a Business Getter

The tickler method may be used in many other ways. Resourceful salesmen, for
instance, utilize it in some such form as shown in Figure 4, to "establish a
point of contact" with their prospects. Such a list, slightly modified in form,
is perhaps even more useful to the assistant sales manager.

[ocr errors]

Figure 4. Alphabetical Filing

Information concerning various customers filed alphabetically in this way
furnishes the sales manager a point of contact.

Incoming Material

Memoranda by no means exhaust the list of details to be handled by the
executive. Letters, circulars, catalogues, books, and trade papers flow into
his office incessantly. What is to be done with them?

The one best way here, of course, is to use a filing system. Systematic filing,
by means of which orderly storage and swift and accurate reference are secured
for the daily accumulations of letters and records of all sorts, has been an
indispensable part of the growth of modern business. The improvement in filing
methods has been almost incredible.

Systematic Filing a Matter of Course in Careful Business

Our grandfathers jabbed the firm's letters upon hooks or stowed them away in
some pigeonhole or drawer. It is scarcely more than a generation ago that the
box file was introduced, with its cover opening like a book and a set of manila
sheets tabbed alphabetically; and the flat file, much the same in style but
more substantial and elaborate. Today the vertical file, papers arranged on
edge in filing cases of wood or of steel built in standardized size and form,
is practically universal in all well-managed business houses, large or small.
Progressive concerns regard it as an essential part of their work to devise a
system fitted to their particular organization and to provide for its competent
administration.

All this should have a lesson for the executive in the management of his
personal memoranda. If system is good for the general organization, it is
equally good for the work of the man who administers the organization—or a
division of it.

Apply the Lesson to Your Own Work

Yet many executives have failed to learn this lesson. Even when the
correspondence, records, memoranda of the organization, are handled with the
utmost care and efficiency, their personal offices often exhibit astonishing
lack of system. In not a few offices most of the material referred to above is
simply piled up anywhere. The plan seems easy enough, but, judged by results,
it is grinding hard. No one can afford to dig through dust-covered heaps every
time he needs something, and yet he cannot run the risk of forgetting that the
information is available, or of ignoring it entirely because he is too lazy to
hunt for it.

The executive should have his own filing system planned according to a simple
but complete scheme of classification— he will probably find the alphabetic
method most convenient— and kept in a properly arranged vertical cabinet. A
single unit file, fitted with twenty-six guides, lettered alphabetically, will
care very satisfactorily for the average man's personal correspondence, and
perhaps leave space which is available for other purposes.

The vertical filing cabinet itself may be had in either wood or metal, in
colors to match the regular office furniture, in cap size or letter size, and
in varying numbers of sections, such as single units, two sections vertical, or
three sections horizontal. With this variety of patterns available, one need
not encounter serious difficulty in fitting the vertical cabinet into his
office equipment.

The more bulky catalogues, together with books and such trade papers as are
preserved, are preferably stored upon shelves. Bookcase units to match the
files can be used if the additional expense is not too great. When shelves
cannot otherwise be arranged conveniently, a small revolving bookcase often
will solve the problem.

The equipment here described enables the executive to keep the incoming
material under strict control as it moves across his desk to its final
destination—a file, a shelf, or the wastepaper basket.

y The Idea File—Mental Staleness and Its Antidotes

The executive at the head of a progressive enterprise gives of himself freely.
He scatters enthusiasm, bright sayings, point-driving stories, and big ideas
here and there as he goes along. After a time the disquieting thought is apt to
present itself that he is becoming stale; he has given but has not grown; he is
in danger of mental bankruptcy.

Since to continue effective he must be fertile in new ideas, it is well to
inquire what system, if any, will aid him in meeting the demand. What shall he
do, for instance, with the choice bits of information which come along daily?
An advertising man finds in his mail an unusually pulling form letter. An
engineer sees in his technical paper an article on better results from coal. A
works superintendent learns how a manager in Pittsburgh,by opening up a
dead-end job, secures a higher grade of applicants. Shall such items, the
results of much thought and costly experiment on the part of other men, escape
him? With his own puzzling questions to settle, shall he merely say helplessly:
"If I could only lay my hands on that article I was reading somewhere last
month—."

Digging through piles of trade papers in search of what he knows is in there
somewhere, or vaguely trying to remember its location, is poor business. Such
material should be filed.

The scrap-book has been discarded as inefficient, partly because it commonly
has no scheme of indexing. The envelope system, in which each subject or topic
has its particular envelope, is so time-consuming and laborious that few
persons keep it going consistently. The vertical file, however, offers a device
both easy and rapid.

The Retailer Keeps Up to Date

In one of the smaller cities retailer Norling, let us say, owns a department
store which he wants to make the up-todate store of that region. In thinking
over the matter, he decides that the vital problems of his business center
around the following topics:

1. Buying methods

2. Care of stock

3. Store equipment

4. Newspaper advertising

5. Direct advertising

6. Window displays

7. Salesmanship

8. Special sales

9. Handling employees
10. Mail-order competition

11. Charge accounts

12. Delivery problems

13. Store leaks

14. Accounting

Accordingly, he secures a single unit vertical file and with some pressboard
guides indexes it by writing on the respective tabs the foregoing titles. When
he next reads in his trade paper the details of how a Mr. Cowley in Nebraska is
winning mail-order trade from a city competitor, he files the sheet under
"Mail-order competition." In the same paper he finds reproduced the
prize-winning display window of a recent contest, and he slips this picture
into "Window displays." His mind becomes more and more alert, because he is now
an active seeker of ideas; and his business becomes more and more profitable,
because he puts into service the most productive ideas of many merchants.

The Idea File in Operation

When the idea file is used extensively, the best way is merely to mark with a
number only the articles desired, leaving to a secretary the clipping and
filing. In case these items are found in a book from which it is not convenient
to remove the leaves, the executive places the file number on a blank page
which, for the time being, serves as a book-mark, and indicates by pencil on
the margin the paragraphs or sentences to be copied.

When the material preserved consists of miscellaneous clippings and quotations,
a vertical letter file is appropriate. But suppose the ideas one wishes to save
are his own, jotted down here and there on memo? The letter size file is then
cumbersome, and a card index, 3x5, 4x6, or 5x8, corresponding to the size of
his memo paper, is more satisfactory. This index, of course, will also serve
for clippings, provided these are folded. Such a "brain box" is capable of
aiding a

busy man considerably, and in order to make a start in its use he need only
draw up a list of his problems which thereupon serves as the index.

An Increased Supply of Facts

A real estate operator, for instance, in trying to interest prospects in his
surburban houses, encounters such objections as "can't afford to buy,"
"neighborhood undesirable," "too far from the city," "climate unhealthful," and
the like. Worse still, he finds his regular sales canvass becoming stale.
Accordingly, he takes a dozen guide cards, 4x6 size, let us say, to correspond
with his memo paper, writes these stock objections on the tabs, puts aside
another set of cards for "liveners," and places them all in a twenty-five cent
card index.

In reading the evening paper soon afterwards, he learns through the social
columns that Mrs. De Style has just given a garden party to the smart set,
whose names are mentioned. This item quickly finds its way behind the
"Neighborhood undesirable" tab; it will prove itself good ammunition later. In
a health report which comes to his attention soon afterwards appears a column
of unusually favorable statistics; into the "Climate unhealthful" place this
goes. One dull afternoon he digs into the tax records and the material there
unearthed, a broadside in its strength of conviction, he slips behind the
"Can't afford to buy" tab. A clever little story emphasizing the distinction
between house and home, he files away as a "Freshener." What the real estate
operator really does here is to build up an auxiliary brain. His index
furnishes him definite and copious information which results in more houses
sold.

A Loose-Leaf Idea File

An idea file can very readily be made of a loose-leaf notebook, properly
indexed. Although as a usual thing this will

[ocr errors]

not prove so convenient as the regular filing case, it possesses certain
advantages and is mentioned here chiefly to emphasize the fact that in form the
idea file admits of considerable variation.

"It's almost impossible for me to remember the hundred and one plans I have
ahead of me—and to file a thing often means to lose sight of it," says D. B.
Otzen, a progressive Chicago executive. "An every-day loose-leaf binder solved
my problem.

"The plans I want to use are condensed and rewritten on loose-leaf sheets, and
filed. I use a separate page for each subject, containing both my own and the
other man's new ideas. When a particular method has been worked out and
adapted, I tear out the corresponding page—so that only 'live' material stays
in the book.

"Thumbing through my 'brain partner' three or four times a month jogs up the
memory. Here are the very plans I

Subject Subhead

Title Author

Source Date ..

Remarks:

Figure 5. An Index Card for Books and Magazines

This card when filed serves to introduce system into a man's reading. The
filling out of the "Remarks" tends to impress the information upon the mind and
the index is useful for locating articles when desired later.

want, when I want them. The binder saves my time, suggests new ideas, or shows
where I have neglected opportunities that might make hundreds of dollars for
us."

An Index for Books and Articles

A reader who wishes to preserve his trade papers in bound form instead of
removing certain pages from each issue and filing them, or who consults books
from which it is impracticable to remove pages, may utilize a card index in
keeping track of particular articles. A classification according to subjects,
with whatever subheads may be desired under each, is drawn up in the same way
as for the idea file. Here, however, instead of the material itself being
filed, a 3 x 5 card is filled out by which the material can be located. (See
Figure 5.)

Conclusion

The method of recording items for reference does not much matter—the letter
file, the card index, the ringed notebook, the loose-leaf scrap-book, the desk
drawer, or even the vest pocket. But does he let valuable ideas slip away from
him, or does he catch them and have them at hand when needed? That is the real
crux of the problem faced by all men in business. The executive, whether the
head of a house or a department manager and whatever his line of business, is
in a stream of business-getting ideas. Beyond question he can use some form of
brain-box with profit.

While we have been setting into operation the various methods discussed thus
far, what has happened to the detail which pours in upon our desks? In large
measure it has already been cared for.

Exercises

Methods You Arc Using

It is well, first of all, to know what methods you are actually following.
Suppose you take stock, using Test Chart 1 for this purpose.

[table][merged small]

In view of what this chart shows, do you succeed in keeping the big things in
mind, the details on paper? Or do you find yourself trying to remember
everything? Do you make embarrassing mistakes, such as forgetting social
engagements? Do you have casual lapses of memory, such as letting slip the
special order promised? Are you nervous, haunted with vague feelings that
something is being forgotten? Most important of all, is your output limited
because the handling of details is left unstandardized?

Not Too Much Apparatus

The array of apparatus found on display at the stationery store and described
in the catalogues, circulars, and books issued by the manufacturers is apt to
prove somewhat confusing. A man can easily overload himself even with pieces of
apparatus individually good. Suppose then that we subject this assortment
offered us for purchase to these tests:

Simplicity: Can I easily get into the habit of using this particular device? Is
it simple to operate afterwards? Can it be readily carried or stored in my
office?

Accuracy: Can it be depended upon when used properly? What are the chances for
making errors?

Low Cost: What is its initial cost? Its durability? The cost for its required
supplies?

Adequacy: Does it meet my present needs? Can its capacity be expanded as I
grow?

Appropriateness: Does it dovetail with my other pieces of apparatus so that
altogether my methods of handling details represent a coherent program?

When it appears that as a result of these tests certain pieces of apparatus
have been decided upon, let us list all these items in the second column of
Test Chart 2. You may have selected two or more pieces of apparatus for filing
purposes, or for the recording of memoranda, etc., but for the purpose of
grading, these will be considered in each case as a unit. Does what you have
selected for the making

[table][merged small]

of memoranda represent simplicity to the 1oo per cent degree? If so, place a
figure 5 opposite "Note-books" in the column designated "Simple." Continue in
the same way with the other four tests. crediting each a 5, a 3, or whatever
your selections really deserve; and then do likewise with the other three
classes. A perfect score equals 100 points.

How many credits have you?

Should this grade not satisfy you, remember that it is subject to improvement
at any and all times. In the school of efficiency the final marks are never
entered once for all upon the books.

A Final Warning!

A fad is a good idea pressed too far. The recording and filing systems
described above may become merely fads in the hand of a zealot who, without
discrimination, makes a note of everything which falls under his observation
and religiously files it away. One must keep perspective, and not forget the
waste-basket.

The things most worth filing concern themselves with standards.

Last year as a result of several months' experimenting in your machine shop,
you standardized the making of brass valves. Are these standards now your
permanent possession, recorded and filed?

In your office for six weeks this spring a high-priced systematizcr was
replacing rule-of-thumb with standard practice. Do you have this standard
practice, or has most of it disappeared with the expert?

Do you work out with toil and patience a practical method of getting more from
your time and effort, the one best way to hire a stenographer, equip your
summer camp, mix dye stuff, or write letters?

Record it and file it!

CHAPTER IV

OFFICE EQUIPMENT

The whole aim in standardising conditions is to arrange means to eliminate
duplication of effort—to make things easier—to kill off waste—to facilitate, in
every possible way. C. E. Knoeppel Industrial Engineer.

The Executive's Workshop

The preceding chapter was concerned with certain mechanical aids which have
proved useful in the handling of details. The present chapter carries the
matter of personal system a step further.

The office of an executive should be a well-arranged workshop, where, with
minimum time and effort, a maximum mental output is attained. While it is true
that this output, owing to its intangible nature, cannot be ticketed in the
storage bins, it is none the less real. Its cost, like that of foundry castings
or machine parts, varies according to the completeness with which the
conditions incident to its production have been standardized.

The recognition of this fact more or less clearly has been responsible for the
marked changes in the various types of office equipment which have taken place
during the last decade. The executives of the present day are introducing
scientific management into their personal affairs, and surrounding themselves
with result-getting equipment which was unknown twenty years ago.

Let us commence with the leading article of equipment in an office, its desk.

The Office Desk

Several decades ago, as Harry A. Hoff tells us, it was the fashion to have an
office desk of walnut or bird's-eye maple that stood five feet high, opened up
like a safe, and had neat little boxes fitted in tiers of pigeonholes, not only
in the desk itself but in either door. Filing cabinets were unknown and the
worker at the desk had to keep within his immediate reach all the numerous
letters, papers, and records relating to his work.

After the invention of filing cabinets, the roll-top desk came into vogue. It
was an improvement on its archaic predecessor, but even the roll-top desk was
an unwieldy piece of furniture which afforded too many opportunities for the
storage of papers and records in its cavernous drawers.

Later came smaller desks with superstructures low enough to permit a clear view
of other desks in the office. In the meantime as filing cabinets were
perfected, less need existed for utilizing the desk as a storage cabinet. This
consideration led finally to the modern flat-top desk, a type which is widely
used in the business world today.

The "Built-to-Order" Desk

The desk is now regarded very properly as a business work-bench. Two different
tendencies may be noticed as follows:

First, there is the wish to utilize every possibility of the desk, every inch
of its top, every corner of its drawers, for quick, first-aid reference. To
secure such complete adaptation of desk to user it is often desirable to have
the desk built to order. This does not necessarily imply blue-printed
specifications for some skilled cabinetmaker. Various filing equipment
manufacturers have saved us from such necessity by designing "desk units." (See
Figure 6.) With dozens of combinations available—in fact, one company professes
to offer 8,000 possible combinations—the desk-worker selects the units which
most fully satisfy his requirements, in this way building his own serviceable
work-bench.

[graphic]

Figure 6. A Desk Built to Order

This represents one of many possible combinations, units being available for a

variety of purposes.

The Desk Cleared for Action

The second tendency is the wish to have the desk clear, free from any
accumulation or litter. To clear out the rubbish and start afresh with a clean
desk constitutes a first step toward office system.

Our favorite adjective for expressing neatness, completeness, and efficiency
generally is "shipshape." On a ship everything must be stowed away in its place
because the space is limited—there is just room enough. When Rear-Admiral
McGowan, "the business manager" of our navy, was transferred from a battleship
to the office in Washington, he applied the same principles of practical
efficiency he had known on shipboard.

"Why not," thought McGowan, "have an office as shipshape as a ship? If there is
wisdom in having a warship stripped for action, why not a business office? Why
not be just as efficient, just as free from lost motion, on land as on water?

"Roll-top desks and pigeonholes are the foes of the do-itnow impulse," said
McGowan. When he became paymastergeneral the offices were full of roll-top
desks and he made a request for a new equipment of desks. When it was refused
he sent for a carpenter and had him saw off the tops and pigeonholes. The
result—well, that may be described in the words of the private secretary of
Judge Gary of the United States Steel Corporation, who has the same idea:

"That table," said Judge Gary's secretary, "reflects the state of mind of my
chief as he begins his day's work—cleared for action." Its polished top bore
pen, ink, and scratch pad, nothing more.

The Desk Kept Cleared for Action

Now that the desk itself has been rid of every junk-heap characteristic, the
time is at hand to install a system under which accumulations will not
accumulate. Material will come—receive the proper attention—then go! This
system will increase the day's output and prove conducive to better sleep at
night.

"One at a Time, Gentlemen!"

A litter of papers tends to create confusion, since attention is divided among
a number of problems, at the expense of all. Each paper in sight is a problem
awaiting solution and it automatically prods the mind to solve it. But since
the attention can be focused effectively upon only one thing at a time, every
paper, every task to be done, should be dealt with as callers are dealt
with—one at a time and each in his turn. This requires system, which in this
particular in

[graphic][merged small]

stance is well represented by the day's work file. (See Figure 7.)

The Day's Work File

The form of the day's work file requires no special consideration, but its
function is vital in desk efficiency. A place is provided for every paper,
where it cannot distract the attention from other work nor fall under the gaze
of curious eyes, yet where it is instantly accessible when wanted.

Each problem in hand, every piece of work requiring time should be assigned a
place in the day's work file and be put there to await its turn. Practically an
appointment is made with each task. In this way a simple yet effective system
may be evolved from the day's work file by anyone who is willing to make the
preliminary survey.

The basis of any system is analysis and classification. In planning for a day's
work file, the executive must analyze his day's work. What sort of items day
after day come to him for attention? In what classes can they be grouped
conveniently? The answers to the latter question will serve as labels for the
pockets of the file.

A General Manager Analyzes His Work

The following classification, worked out by a general manager, may prove
suggestive and adaptable to individual needs.

Dictate Today. In this pocket he places every letter which is ready for
dictation and which should be sent off promptly.

Dictate When Convenient. In this pocket he slips all letters which can wait.
When there is a canceled appointment or some delay, he reaches into this folder
and dictates possibly a half-dozen letters meanwhile.

Mr. Sheldon. Mr. Sheldon is the sales manager, so into this pocket go items
pertaining to the selling department, including advertising.

Mr. Recce. This pocket is set aside for the works manager, and it receives
things pertaining to the production end of the business.

Mr. Amstcr. This pocket is reserved for the office manager. Mr. Sheldon, Mr.
Reece, and Mr. Amster have appointments with the general manager every morning,
and each of them keeps a similar file in preparing for his appointment.

Mr. Olin. Mr. Olin is the systematizes The general manager arranges special
appointments with him from time to time, filing meanwhile in this pocket items
which are to come up at the next conference.

Directors. The directors meet once a month on the first Monday. This date is
entered in the tickler two business days beforehand, which allows the general
manager ample time to get the material here filed into shape for the meeting.

Kick Meeting. The junior officials of the firm are in the habit of meeting the
general manager every other week on Wednesdays, at conferences to which the
name "kick meeting" has been facetiously applied. As the meetings are really
constructive, this pocket receives various items other than objections.

Pending. Matters temporarily held up are filed here. Sometimes it is a
quotation which is awaited, sometimes the reply to a house communication or a
letter.

Specials. The additional pockets are reserved for whatever miscellaneous
matters may come up. Perhaps it is an after-dinner address, or the annual
business show, or a mutual

[graphic][merged small]

benefit association organized among his workmen; in any case his secretary
types a new label and pastes it upon some unused flap. When the matter has been
disposed of, the pocket becomes available for a new label.

The foregoing headings prove adequate for this general manager and his position
is important enough to draw a salary running well into five figures. The point
to be noted, however, is the fact that the day's work when analyzed can be
classified.

Some men may prefer a more complete classification, with such a corresponding
increase in pockets that a single file cannot well contain them all. In this
case, a second file can he planned as a continuation of the first and kept in a
lower drawer of the desk. (See Figure 8.)

A Hold-Over File

If the list of items held up for attention becomes too bulky for the day's work
file, some sort of hold-over must be devised. If you have the well-arranged
vertical letter-file described in Chapter III, the problem takes care of
itself; but if that is not available, there are substitutes.

The expansion envelope, large-sized and made of tough stock, is one substitute.
Expansion envelopes in certain patterns have a complete index, pockets being
provided for each letter of the alphabet, day of the month, month of the year,
etc.

The Deep Drawer Remodeled into a File

A better solution consists in remodeling that big, deep drawer found in most
desks. At present it is likely to be system's arch-enemy—filled with business
relics of every sort— but by removing the two wooden partitions and fitting it
out with folders, it can be made over into a handy vertical file.

This drawer file can be indexed, of course, in whatever way one sees fit. With
the various subjects in which we are interested written on the tabs, it serves
as an idea file. Indexed according to days and months, it becomes a follow-up.
Fitted with twenty-six folders alphabetized, it makes a good letter-file.
Labeled with the subjects upon which we work daily, it supplements the day's
work file.

Results of Good Equipment and Layout

With these appliances, simple though they are, as his aids, a man is able to
hold the whip-hand over his work. He no longer goes through batches of papers
in the old haphazard manner, but attacks them methodically. The various tasks
on hand are there in the day's work file, each in its own compartment, some of
them accumulating gradually the supplementary information required for their
solution. The thing to do is thus made definite, specific. As each task is
taken up it receives undivided attention.

The Disposal of Finished Work

Finished and unfinished work should not be allowed to intermix. If the finished
work is left lying about one is tempted to putter at it, thereby losing that
stimulus to the will which comes from dispatching a thing with finality.

A system for outgoing material must be devised. Where the messenger service is
good, one basket or tray may suffice; each piece of matter dropped into the
basket has its destination indicated on a sheet attached and the office boy
does the rest. In other cases, a series of compartments perhaps will be
arranged, each labeled "For Mr. Morris," "For Mr. Jones," "Outgoing Mail," etc.
Sometimes wire baskets, the three-decker sort, are used for this purpose.

The Matter of Small Wastes

Many executives, anxious to get directly at their tasks, pay slight attention
to their desk tools. In many private offices high-salaried men are tearing open
letters with their fingers, sharpening pencils with a jack knife, writing with
old, scratchy, steel pens—their desks littered with miscellaneous supplies, and
paraphernalia in the main unused because unusable.

Take a lesson from the machine shop. Standardize the working tools.

What articles do I find absolutely essential? A rigorous answer to this
question.insures the worker his full kit of tools, but rids him of a number of
articles which now clutter his desk drawers and desk top.

What size and quality of these articles are best? Do not leave to chance the
kind of letter paper or ink or pencils that

[blocks in formation]

(Front of Drawer.)

Figure Q. The Center Desk Drawer Partitioned

When compartments have been installed, the contents are not thrown into
confusion with every opening and shutting of this drawer, and the reaching for
articles needed becomes a matter of second nature.

you use, or keep changing the size of your memo paper. Their proper selection
in the first place, by which is meant their standardization, solves the matter.

A Place for Each Desk Tool

Where shall these articles be kept? "A place for everything and everything in
its place," the old motto taught us by our grandmothers, applies forcibly here
for this reason: Not only can tools be secured more conveniently if stored
according to some definite plan but, when they are kept regularly in their
respective places, the process of reaching them when desired is rendered
automatic. This results in a decided saving of the mental forces and business
time of the executive.

The wide, shallow middle drawer affords a convenient location for the majority
of desk tools. Special compartments in this drawer should be arranged for the
things most frequently used, the partitions being made either of wood or
cardboard. (See Figure 9.) It is also possible to secure from office supply
houses a separate wooden tray, with numerous cups hollowed out like a money
till, which slips into the shallow drawer. Until the location assigned to the
various tools becomes second nature, u is well to label each compartment.

The Glass Desk Top as an Extra File

The filing system puts papers out of sight, where they will not distract the
attention from the work at hand. Certain data, however, are so frequently
consulted that they ought, if possible, to be kept in full view. The glass desk
top affords a solution.

Or a small glass plate can be inserted in the arm rest of a chair, or the slide
on a desk, and thus a place, perhaps even more convenient than the glass desk
top and possessing some privacy, may be arranged for price schedules, cost
figures, today's plans, or other data to which frequent reference is made.

An Architect's Office System

An architect uses the large sheet kept under this glass top as the basis of his
entire system. Each job as undertaken is entered in order on the schedule
sheet, receiving automatically as its number the number of the line it occupies
thereon. (See Figure 10.) This number then becomes the key to everything
pertaining to the particular job. Sketches and drawings, specifications,
records of every kind are filed by this number, filling as many folders as may
be needed, 3-1, 3-2, 3-3, etc. The schedule sheet as used in this office
deserves its prominent place under the glass desk top.

[graphic]

Figure 10. Schedule for Desk Glass

This is the schedule sheet on which an architect keeps track of jobs ahead.
(Reproduced through courtesy of System.)

No doubt in every office certain material can be filed with profit under the
glass top—production graphs for works managers, season schedules for sporting
page editors, tables of stocks on hand for merchandise men, and fundamental
statistics for purchasing agents. But this space is too limited and too
prominent a flag to the attention to permit its indiscriminate assignment.

The Executive's Devices for Communication

The executive requires some appropriate system for communication, and his desk
to serve him well must bring this system close at hand.

Five devices are worth mentioning in this connection: the buzzer, the
telephone, the interphone or house phone, the dictograph, and the telautograph.
The simplest to install is the buzzer; practically all electrical supply houses
carry it and any person who understands the most simple electric wiring can
install it. The location of the button should be within easy reach. If it is
desired a signal code can be adopted.

The Telephone, Its Use and Abuse

The telephone is widely used—and abused too, although the quality of telephone
habits is steadily rising. In managing calls in the private office, there still
exists room for improvement; too much time is lost in the maneuvers of
secretaries who try to get the outside executive on the wire before their own
employers are called.

The telephone proves so convenient a means of communication for house men that
after a time its use for outside business is seriously interfered with. The
interphone overcomes this difficulty since it is independent of the public
telephone system. There are several types of these interphones on the market;
with practically all of these the necessary connections may be made without
requiring the services of an operator.

Dictograph and Telautograph

The dictograph affords some distinct advantages in bringing business men into
communication. Through its use an executive located at a central station may
call several department heads into a conference over the wire.

The telautograph is a mechanical device by means of which a message written on
one instrument is duplicated upon the receiving board of a second instrument
located elsewhere within the organization but connected with the first
instrument by electricity. Since the messages are recorded at both ends of the
line, it furnishes a check upon the accuracy of intercommunications.

Still other means of communication are the pneumatic tubes, the overhead
carrier, and the dumb-waiter. Information concerning all these devices may be
secured from their respective manufacturers whose advertisements appear in
office equipment journals. It may be well in passing to emphasize the value of
a well-planned office memo blank and a smoothly working messenger service.

The Importance of Office Layout

It may seem now that the business man has his private office fully equipped.
This is not yet true, for all equipment is merely a means to an end—does it get
results easily and quickly?

Much depends upon the way the equipment has been arranged within the office.
Are the filing cabinets over near the door, requiring several steps to reach
them? Does the telephone placed by the window necessitate more walking? Does
one in consulting the dictionary or the trade catalogue step around the desk?
Is the most frequently used desk tool kept at the rear, not the front, of the
middle desk drawer?

A Real Estate Dealer's Office Problem

This problem was met and solved ingeniously by a real estate dealer. This
dealer's office was conveniently connected with that of an insurance company
with which he co-operated, and which permitted him at slight expense to make
use of its reception room for his callers. He had one assistant, a young

man just out of high school, who handled the stenographic and clerical work
besides interesting himself in the business. The office layout as it then
existed is shown in Figure na.

The business fell into two distinct divisions: (I) the managing of buildings
for their owners, the list of properties being kept in a 4 x 6 unit and all
correspondence and other records in vertical letter file units of the same
filing cabinet; and (2) personal ventures, the data for which consisted of
papers kept in the pigeonholes and drawers of his desk or piled on the table,
and of maps which when rolled stood in the corner but otherwise were lying on
the table.

In these personal ventures, the dealer would usually buy a plot, subdivide it,
sell the lots at a profitable advance, and perhaps build houses on them
according to the purchaser's specifications. Unless the specifications were
intricate, the dealer served as his own architect, working out the plans while
seated at the table.

The real estate man received notice, however, that since the manufacturer, his
other neighbor, must have more space, his present office upon the expiration of
the year's lease would be cut down in width by eight feet. He was about to
move, when he was persuaded to study his office layout problem.

What an Investigation Revealed

Investigation revealed that during two two-hour periods selected for study he
turned to his bookcase zero times; he consulted his filing cabinets five times,
in each instance the 4x6 card index unit; he walked to the table and back
eighteen times, several of these trips being for tools needed at the table but
kept at the desk. He made four trips to the maps, plus a few others from file
to maps or from maps to table or from desk, etc., to door. In two instances he
averaged five minutes in hunting through a pile of house pictures for a certain
set he wanted to show his visitor. In one instance he

[graphic]

took a drawer full of papers out upon his lap and spent eleven minutes hunting
before he was ready to dictate. In four instances he thumbed somewhat
thoughtlessly material protruding from the pigeonholes but did not carry the
search further. The assistant during the same hours walked to the table three
times, to confer with his chief; to the files six times, usually with reference
to correspondence; and to take dictation, three times.

The Office as Rearranged

When these various trips had been plotted on a diagram and this compared with a
second diagram showing how the office could be arranged, the real estate man
was speedily convinced of the value of motion study and its importance to him.
The new office, as rearranged after the partition was moved over eight feet, is
shown in Figure lib.

The table was moved into the corner near the desk, the bookcase was taken out
and a small rack, sufficient to hold all the volumes, substituted. The filing
cabinet was brought near the assistant, but the 4x6 card index so frequently
consulted by the dealer was installed as a desk unit. The maps were taken from
the corner and fitted into one of the regulation wall cabinets; any of them can
now be pulled down at will and when not in use it is rolled up out of the way.
The pictures once piled on a low box under the table now are attractively
mounted on large display leaves, hinged so as to swing back against the wall.
The architect's papers and drawings formerly kept on top of the table have been
placed inside the large shallow drawer which a carpenter fitted into this
table. A double desk replaces the old roll top affair, the typewriter desk has
been turned half-way about and both workers use swivel chairs.

"My rent has been cut down $350," comments the real estate man, "but that
doesn't begin to represent what I've gained. I can turn in my chair here and
lay my hands on about everything I want. This deep drawer," pulling open the
lower drawer of his desk, "has every lot and house I've got on sale filed there
in order. This makes it easy to follow things up. The maps and pictures over
there help me to get my sales talk across. And as for being crowded, we
actually seem to have more room than ever."

There is nothing particularly unusual about the real estate man's problem, nor
does he claim in his present office arrangement to have reached perfection. He
simply applied the principles of motion study to the conditions of his daily
work. This everyone may do.

Conclusion

Standardization of office conditions by facilitating and expediting necessary
operations makes increase of output possible. The business man who takes hold
of the matter systematically can transform his office, whatever his line of
business, into an efficiently productive workshop.

Exerc1ses

Simple Forms of the Day's Work File

In considering the day's work file possibly you may have been led to think it
feasible only to men, like the general manager above mentioned, with many
things on their hands. Such would be an incorrect view. The day's work file to
be helpful need not have an elaborate index.

One successful business man depends constantly upon a file whose index has only
eight tabs and five of these are specials! The three regulars are "Today's,"
"When convenient," and "Pending." The other tabs are labeled from time to time
as special problems are undertaken.

If you want to try out the day's work file before purchasing, take a discarded
letter file of the old-fashioned book type, remove the leaf covers at both side
and back, substitute for the alphabetized paper sheets an index of seven or
eight stiff pressboard sheets, arranging these in such a way that the tabs will
not overlap so as to hide each other, and provide yourself with a few plain
gummed labels.

An analysis of your work is next to be made.

What sort of work are you doing? Can you classify it under some such heads as
the general manager did, or more simply, as in the case just cited? These
headings you now write on the gummed labels, sticking them upon the tabs in
order. If the file does not work smoothly the chances are you have not
correctly analyzed your work, although this, it may be added, need cause no
particular concern since the classification admits of modification until the
arrangement proved most practical has been secured.

An Inventory of Your Desk Tools

Suppose we now take an inventory of the desk tools, using for this purpose Test
Chart 3. Complete the list of articles by writing in the names of whatever
additional items the search through your desk reveals. Indicate by check marks
your answers in the next three columns. Consider the matter with some care
before checking the replies of the last two columns, since questions such as
the following have to be answered:

When reordering supplies, paper for instance, do you depend upon guesswork or
upon exact information, recorded?

Are you found wasting ten minutes'time trying to tie some package with a piece
of string it required five cents of your time to save, or using for scratch
paper an old envelope carefully preserved at a cost in time of four sheets of
the regulation pad?

Does the shallow center drawer contain all the small tools in constant use, or
do these occupy various locations? Are these tools kept in the most convenient
order, or are the frequently used clips well to the back of the drawer, with
the rarely used sealing wax occupying a prominent place at the front? Every
motion ought to count; and while the sealing wax no doubt is handy the clips
ought to be more handy.

Other Aids

How about a dictionary and some reference books? In a certain publishing house,
I found the editorial staff without a dictionary! The business man unless his
tastes are scholarly need not invest in Webster's International, The Century,
or The New Standard, but at any rate some abridged edition of these deserves a
place in his office.

Each business also has its own special reference works, some of which at least
ought to be accessible.

[blocks in formation]

Pencils

Pens

Ink

Blotters

Ruler

Erasers

Clips

Pins

Rubber bands
Twine

Letter opener
Scissors
Paper-weight
Colored pencils
Pencil sharpener
Penknife
Screw-driver
Library paste
Drawing instruments
Sealing-wax
Stationery
Sponge
Scratch-paper
Memo paper
Cross-ruled paper
Paper-punch

Test Chart 3. An Inventory of Desk Tools

A dictionary holder adjusted to the corner of the desk keeps tht book ready for
consultation and a revolving bookcase near the desk makes it easy to get at a
number of books. However, much depends here upon special needs. Lack of space
usually prevents our having within reach everything we might need, so we must
give first place to those we use most. To the business man this means as a
usual thing that the revolving bookcase must give way to an extra chair for
callers.

Lost Motion in Your Own Office

How much lost motion can you eliminate from your office? Possibly you say none
at all, that everything runs smoothly as a clock. That was the way the real
estate dealer felt about his office, until he found out.

On a sheet of paper draw a diagram of your present layout. Use cross-ruled
paper if you have it at hand, or rule a sheet lightly with pencil on the scale
of one or two feet to the half-inch. Block in with heavy lines the various
pieces of furniture, each in its relative location. Have someone record your
chief movements about the office during several of what may be taken as sample
hours. On the diagram represent these by dotted lines. What does this motion
study tell you about yourself?

When this question has had its answer, take a second sheet of paper ruled like
the first. Block in with heavy lines the outside limits of your office,
indicating the walls, door, and windows. On the same scale, cut out small paper
squares to represent its chief articles of furniture. Now maneuver these paper
squares around like pieces on a chess-board, until the best possible layout is
discovered. An ideal solution may not be attainable, the lighting in one
otherwise perfect plan being poor, while the arrangement which secures 100 per
cent lighting entails two extra steps in getting at the files. Under careful
manipulation, however, such difficulties can be minimized, though scarcely
avoided in their entirety. Standardized conditions in this case mean simply the
one best combination, not the ideal location for every unit in that
combination.

Very few offices are able to score 100 per cent in this layout test.

CHAPTER V

THE PRIVATE SECRETARY

It is hard to get a man to let go of detail—to grow up into control—to think
for subordinates who do not think.— Edward B. Butler, President of Butler
Brothers.

John D. Rockefeller's Growth as an Executive

The business man needs not merely an expanded capacity for handling detail
personally but, as he advances, the sense of proportion as to the relative
value of his own effort.

The career of John D. Rockefeller, since it well illustrates this significant,
though gradual change with respect to details, merits the close consideration
of any business man who, like Mr. Rockefeller, would advance to high position.

The refinery in which he first began the oil business was a small affair. The
pushing of the business, the buying and the selling, fell to Mr. Rockefeller,
and not a single detail believed to affect either profit or loss escaped his
hawklike scrutiny. "He had the frugal man's hatred of waste and disorder, of
middleman and unnecessary manipulation," Miss Tarbell in her admirable "History
of the Standard Oil Company" points out, "and he began a vigorous elimination
of these from his business. The residuum that other refineries let run into the
ground he sold. Old iron found its way to the junk shop. He bought his oil
directly from the wells. He made his own barrels. He watched and saved and
contrived."

The Standard Oil "Trust"

The business under such watchful management expanded, and here e.gain Mr.
Rockefeller showed his business acumen— he expanded with it. "The entire
business was placed in 1882 in the hands of nine trustees, of whom Mr.
Rockefeller was president. These trustees have always acted as if they were
nine partners in a business, and the only persons concerned in it. . . . Below
them, and sifting things for their eyes, were committees which dealt with the
various departments of the business."

It has always been a tenet of Mr. Rockefeller's business faith to select as his
associates the "big" men, the ones who had shown that they could succeed. The
evolution of his vast business has been parallel with the devolution of much
responsibility upon subordinates. Although the methods of organization changed
often, this rule remained a law of the Medes and Persians, unalterable and
unanswerable.

The Headship of a Big Organization

How did this new policy, gradually introduced as the business expanded, affect
Mr. Rockefeller personally? Rockefeller, himself, explains his policy as
follows:

"My methods of attending to business matters differed from those of most
well-conducted merchants of my time," says Mr. Rockefeller, in his "Random
Reminiscences," "and allowed me more freedom. Even after the chief affairs of
the Standard Oil Company were moved to New York, I spent most of my summers at
our home in Cleveland, and I do still. I would come to New York when my
presence seemed necessary, but for the most part I kept in touch with the
business through our own telegraph wires, and was left free to attend to many
things which interested me—among others, the making of paths, the planting of
trees, and the setting out of little forests of seedlings."

At first, Mr. Rockefeller handled details by attending to them personally;
afterwards he handled details by delegating them.

The Executive's Chief Business

(If men are to advance, they must learn to share tasks) for advancement in
business means assuming control of activities too large for the individual to
swing unaided. The man at the head of a business, or at the head of a
department, becomes necessarily an organizer. He learns to shift the burden of
detail upon subordinates and to systematize routine so that everyday results
are made automatic.

Organization is one of the best ways to discipline details.

The executive in his desire for maximum accomplishment is thus called outside
his private office to study his organization as a whole. If his desk is
overcrowded, if he finds that in spite of system and speeding up, the day's
routine leaves him no time for constructive effort, his organization is
imperfect. (See Figure 12a.) The same personnel, when differently organized, he
may handle with effectiveness—and find a little time perhaps in consequence, to
cultivate an acquaintance with his golf club. (See Figure 12b.) This is quite
as it should be.

"The executive's chief business,'' says President Ripley of the Santa Fe, "is
to (organize, deputize, and supervise.'y

The Utilization of Assistants

Of special importance among the subordinates who free the executive from detail
is the private secretary. His position is comparatively new, an outgrowth of
large-scale business. Executives found after a time that a variety of minor
matters could be delegated to confidential and properly qualified assistants.
So excellent upon the whole have been the results attained that it is very
common among progressive concerns to find private secretaries whose day's
activities are approximately as follows:

[graphic]

The Duties of a Private Secretary

The secretary finds awaiting him upon his arrival all mail for the executive
office. This he opens and sorts, redirecting part of it to other departments,
filing away temporarily such letters as require the securing of information
before reply, answering all the minor communications, and placing upon the
chief's desk those he deems sufficiently important or personal. Even with the
latter he assists by preparing digests of their contents or securing from the
files the record of whatever previous correspondence may be needed. The reply
itself he very commonly writes out in full from the briefest directions given
by his employer. This method of handling correspondence, the executive learns,
is a great timesaver.

Often the secretary prepares the materials for a banquet address or the annual
report of the corporation; sometimes he even writes the address or report in
full. He does the editing and proof-reading for sundry articles; or works up
from such sources of information as trade papers, government reports, current
magazines, or reference books in the library the answers to all sorts of
questions. The average executive has reason to appreciate a secretary who is
able to do such literary and research work, since otherwise much of it would be
left undone.

The secretary meets the callers, ushers in some of them to his chief's presence
without delay, wards off tactfully those who are unwelcome, refers others to
the proper departments, attends to many inquiries himself, and makes
appointments for others with his chief.

The secretary takes care of telephone calls, records appointments and sees that
they are kept, installs and keeps in condition the proper filing systems,
follows up orders, and maps out the day's work. The secretary of a well-known
insurance president remarked, "There is practically no business of Mr. McCall's
that does not pass through my hands."

The Money Value of Secretarial Services

The modern executive recognizes such services as indispensable. It is said that
Vice-President Tarbell of the Equitable pays his secretary a salary of $12,000
per year, and that the late H. H. Rogers valued his secretary's services at
$30,000 per year. No doubt these two secretaries, and others who draw similar
salaries, are well worth such amounts to their employers. But the point to be
emphasized is that it is sound economy whatever the scale of the business to
shift routine duties from the more expensive man at the top to a subordinate
whose time is less costly.

Each minute of the working day of an executive drawing $5,000 a year costs 4.6
cents. If he spends fifteen minutes in the routine of opening the morning mail,
it means 69 cents a day, $4.14 a week, $207 during the business year.

If this man wastes thirty minutes hunting for some correspondence which should
have been filed and promptly produced by a clerk; another thirty minutes on
unimportant material which could readily have been attended to by someone else;
a third thirty minutes answering correspondence of a merely routine nature; a
fourth thirty minutes hunting for telephone numbers, waiting for calls, or
answering unimportant calls; a fifth thirty minutes in ridding himself of
certain visitors who should have been diplomatically sidetracked at the start,
his concern loses thereby $6.90 daily, $2,070 annually.

The Secretary Promotes His Chief's Efficiency

This loss as computed by no means represents fully the injury sustained. The
various annoyances to which an executive under the above conditions is
subjected break up the day, distract the attention until it becomes difficult
to concentrate, in short, put a damper upon creative work. Worse still, the
executive thus annoyed and yet feeling, as he should, that the firm pays him
for constructive work, is apt after a time to develop as a sort of shield a
caustic tone toward callers, a curtness over the telephone, a slowness in
answering communications which costs his firm dear in terms of lost goodwill.

As a means of eliminating losses of money or good-will and at the same time
enlarging the executive's output of creative work and increasing his ability to
co-operate, the private secretary is invaluable. The degree to which the
executive is able to utilize the services of the secretary often measures his
own advancement or undoing.

Selecting a Secretary—The "Hire and Fire" Policy

The importance of the secretary's place in the scheme of things demands that
care be exercised in his selection. If the "hire and fire" policy works out
badly in factories, as all progressive employers agree, it is even worse when
practiced in the private office, for the secretary brought in thus on impulse
may be little able to perform the valuable services required, and on the other
hand, owing to the confidential nature of his duties, his summary ejectment may
prove very unwise.

It is a particularly reckless form of the "hire and fire" policy to leave the
matter to some friend or employment bureau or secretarial school. Temperament
in the executive as well as in the applicant is too important to permit the
opinion of a third person to be final.

The best way is to make the selection according to a systematized procedure.
The executive who sets out to standardize the methods of hiring used by his
concern, including his own methods in the selection of a secretary, thereby
treats applicants fairly since such methods place employees where they are best
fitted to work. He promotes the interests of the firm because in the long run
such an employment plan secures the best possible services for a given cost.
And he advances his own interests since, as John Wanamaker so well puts it,
"the degree and height of his mastery and success accord absolutely with the
number and efficiency of the staff which rises, in decreasing numerical strata,
to support himself at the top."

Where to Find Suitable Applicants

In securing applicants such possible sources may be employed as want
advertisements, particularly those placed in the best mediums, employment
bureaus of high rank which specialize in commercial positions, and commercial
departments in the public high schools, business colleges, secretarial schools,
colleges and universities, especially those offering commercial training. The
promotion of some present employee, one of the best of all methods, will be
mentioned later in another connection.

The Secretary's Qualifications

The qualifications to be sought in the applicant vary somewhat with the
position, the salary to be paid, etc., but the following may be mentioned as
important:

Education: What has been the applicant's schooling? What can be said of his
general knowledge?

Professional attainments: Is he an efficient stenographer? a neat, rapid, and
accurate typist? Does he understand filing systems, and the use of such office
equipment as adding machines, duplicators, and addressing machines? Has he a
thorough knowledge of business correspondence? Does he know something of
bookkeeping, advertising, business management, and of subjects or sciences
particularly connected with our own line of business? What has been his
experience?

Dependability: Is he a person whom we could take into our full confidence?
Would he be discreet, incorruptible, loyal? Could his memory and methods of
recording be

depended upon for such everyday details as appointments, the keeping of
promises, producing papers when wanted?

Initiative: Is he able to think for himself? Has he energy plus imagination, or
would he wait to be told what to do and stop at that? Can he look ahead? Is he
able to stimulate others and direct them as well?

Tact: Does this applicant possess sympathy, courtesy, politeness, patience,
diplomacy? In handling our correspondence and our callers what sort of an
impression would he make? Would he be able to get along with our own people?

Personal traits: How about his voice, his facial expression, his manner of
standing or sitting, his way of speaking? Is he personally neat and cleanly and
of some refinement? Has he good health?

Teachableness: Would this applicant be willing and eager to learn or does he
think he knows it all? Would it be effort wasted to try to get him to improve
or has he the power of growth?

Interest in our business: Has he real interest in this line of business, in our
firm in particular, and in his prospective employer's personal needs and
requirements? Would he study this position and make our interest his own, or
does he look upon it merely as a means of filling in time, a possible
livelihood?

The Rating of the Various Applicants

The answers to some of these questions can be secured very readily from the
preliminary letter of application, others from the references submitted, many
from the personal interview, while for certain others written examinations
should be devised. The tests devised by the United States Civil Service
Commission for the selection of stenographers will prove helpful in this
connection.

The decision as to which applicant is to be preferred depends finally upon his
rating as a whole. One applicant will 1 ave shown himself unusually proficient
in taking dictation, another has been found exceptionally qualified in filing
systems, or handling callers, or thorough knowledge of the business, etc. The
employer should not expect an applicant to grade 100 per cent in all
respects—such a prodigy is not to be found—but should tender the position to
the one whose abilities most nearly meet the requirements.

Standardized Conditions for the Secretary

Upon taking up his new work the private secretary should be provided with the
equipment which renders good work possible. The same rule applies to the
secretary's position as applies—we have seen—to the office conditions of the
executive, namely: to secure superior output, provide standardized conditions.

A typewriter desk into which the machine drops when not in use, a holder for
the stenographer's note-book, a comfortable chair, good light, a supply of
stationery, carbons, clips, scissors, and the like indicate the more common
requirements. In addition there are certain supplies which, while they may not
be termed essentials, yet make for increased effectiveness. Should the
letterheads be stored in one drawer, the envelopes in another, the carbon paper
in a third, and the carbon sheets in their original box or, what would amount
to much the same in the end, all piled into the same drawer, the assembling of
these materials in the typewriter entails much waste effort.

A desk drawer fitted with partitions, inclined toward the rear, keeps the
sheets separate and speeds up the process of assembling.

Owing to the mass of details which comes to the private secretary for
attention, he can very well use much of the equipment, such as the day's work
file and the tickler, discussed in previous chapters. In fact, not a few
private secretaries are really executives, with stenographers to take their
dictation and filing clerks under their direction. Needless to say, such
secretaries can profitably be supplied with the necessary equipment which aids
in systematizing an executive's work.

The Secretary's Desk with Respect to Office Layout

In arranging the office layout, the secretary's desk should be carefully fitted
into the scheme of things. Executives often prefer that the secretary have a
separate room, connected by buzzer, telephone, and door, in order that the
annoyance of the typewriter may be removed and visitors may be received in
privacy. For those who do not follow this plan, che arrangement of the real
estate office shown on page 58 is worth noting. With the office arranged in
this way, the secretary on his revolving chair is able to turn easily to the
typewriter or the double desk. This plan provides considerable working space
and a convenient arrangement in handling telephone calls or dictation.

Training as the Source of Competent Secretaries

It was a far-sighted corporation head who not long since remarked, "We can't
hire executives; we have to grow them." His remark applies with considerable
force to the private secretary. The secretary perfectly trained and competent
to perform at once his most valuable services is simply not to be hired.

Frequently it will be found that the qualifications mentioned on a preceding
page are possessed in the main by some above-average stenographer already in
the firm's employ. She is, let us say, an excellent typist, rapid and accurate
in taking dictation, absolutely dependable, ambitious, has graduated from the
local high school and during her four years' tenure has shown herself most
loyal to the interests of our firm. Would it not be more feasible to promote
her to this secretaryship than to seek elsewhere?

The Best Possible Results from a Given Cost

"Impossible," some will claim. "We invariably employ graduates of secretarial
schools at salaries of $35 to $40 per week and they certainly make poor enough
secretaries, as our experience goes to prove." Very true, no doubt. In some
executive offices even $90 per week would be far too little lo pay for
secretarial services. Nevertheless, the man whose duties and whose importance
in the organization justifies an appropriation not exceeding $20 a week for
secretarial assistance often insists upon a $75-a-week secretary. No others, he
claims, are competent! The point here insisted upon is not that secretaries be
poorly paid, far from that. But every executive is justified, according to his
position, in making a certain expenditure for secretarial services and no more.
It is his duty to secure maximum results within that sum. Very frequently this
implies that the above-average stenographer should be promoted and afforded
some little training for her new position.

A Special Training Course

There are a few excellent books devoted to secretarial work, and the study of
their specific directions and suggestions simplifies the problem of training.
There is such a thing as the professional spirit which, once we have it, leads
us on, makes us grow. In the present instance such a spirit once stirred into
being by the study of these secretarial books*may after a time transform the
promising beginner into a competent secretary.

Books on secretarial training may very well be followed by works on filing and
indexing. The student of such works does not need to be told that accuracy in
filing is important, and is able within a comparatively short time to develop a
competency with filing systems considerably beyond that which the employer
alone would be able to insure. With such knowledge the secretary can aid
materially in working out the form and arrangement of the employer's personal
files.

Handling Correspondence Without Dictation

The goal commonly set for the secretary by his employer is the ability to
handle correspondence without dictation. Too often the employer discovers,
however, that such correspondence is so error-laden as to be unsafe or trite
and exasperating with its customary "Your letter of the 13th received and
contents noted," and "Hoping to be favored with your reply."

While the word for word dictation by the executive may at first seem the
easiest solution it is really no solution at all; the problem is to fit the
secretary to take hold for himself. The principles upon which effective
correspondence depends have been presented in several excellent texts and the
study of these, even the reading of one of them, cannot fail to secure
improvement. The articles devoted to sales correspondence in the current
magazines will be found helpful. This part of his training provides the
secretary with standards for correspondence, numerous directions as to how
these standards are to be applied, and stimulus to make such applications
daily.

A Knowledge of the Company's Business

The business letter, however, depends not alone on the secretary's knowing how
to write but also on his knowing what to write about, in other words, his
knowledge of this particular business and its daily operation. An employer
complained of a certain private secretary because "She doesn't somehow get into
the swing of things." It was discovered later that during her two years'
employment she never went further into the plant than the first floor of the
office building in the front yard. The purchasing, the advertising, and the
accounting departments on the second floor, the twenty-acre plant with its
belching furnaces and tall chimneys, were to

her a closed book. She was unable to get into the swing of things because she
was never in touch with the business.

It may seem far-fetched to include a trip through the establishment, with an
explanation of its details of operation in the training of the private
secretary. Yet this is a good beginning. This training can be excellently
supplemented by a book which treats of the particular industry; by the
catalogues, booklets, and other material prepared by the firm's advertising
department; and by the executive's instruction as he works through the day's
routine

Instructions by the Executive

The last is by far the most important in illuminating the business and its
particular requirements, and it need not be at all formal and time-consuming.
For much of it the executive need only do his thinking aloud. Since the
secretary's most important duty concerns correspondence, the chief purpose of
the instruction will be to teach the secretary to handle the bulk of the
correspondence himself.

"Here's a customer who sets up one of our No. 2 Oil Kings," declares the
executive,showing the secretary a letter he has just received, "only to find
the fly-wheel broken to pieces. He'll be pretty anxious, don't you suppose, to
get a new wheel, the same number R 3249, so he can get right to work? We'll
express him one, at once." Executive dictates letter to customer.

"Now this order ought to go over to the shipping department this morning," he
continues, "so they can get started on it." Dictates order.

"But what's going to become of our profits, Mr. Smith," he inquires, "if we let
the railroad companies break up our machines like that? I guess you'd better
make a copy of this letter for Mr. Jones, our claims man."

A day or two later the executive says, "Here's another one of those complaints
about an Oil King damaged in transit; this time it's this gear-wheel," pointing
to a diagram of the engine in which its parts are numbered, K 3056. "Let's see,
how'd we settle that other case?" he inquires in perplexity. The secretary
volunteers most of the information, the executive supplying a detail here and
there.

"Yes, yes," the manager says, "that's what we did. I guess you can handle this
in the same way, yourself."

The secretary with a new sense of responsibility, consults certain carbons in
the files and after a time has an excellent letter waiting to be signed.

"This letter to Thompson is all right," comments the executive when he comes to
sign it. "That's the way to talk to our customers." Then he adds, "How about
shipping and claims?"

The secretary is much confused. In his enthusiasm over the letter he has
overlooked these entirely.

"Thompson out there on his farm wouldn't care much for your good letter unless
he got that wheel, would he, Mr. Smith?" The executive laughs heartily; then he
adds with seriousness "and as for the claims, if the company lost its profits
it couldn't pay our salaries."

Thus the training goes on.

The Developing of Initiative and Responsibility

"But," someone objects, "such a nuisance! I could dictate the letters myself
with far less time and trouble."

True, but shortsighted. The real issue here is not this one letter but
tomorrow's letters, next week's letters, that interminable procession of
letters which the secretary once trained can handle but which otherwise will
tie the executive to his desk. From this, the correct point of view, training
is as capital invested at compound interest.

Accordingly, the executive for a time keeps the secretary's work under
scrutiny, looking for errors and making suggestions particularly at the time of
signing the letters. Mistakes will appear, and some letters, even under the
reasonable leeway allowed every subordinate, will have to be retyped. Yet the
scrutiny can gradually be relaxed. Before long his secretary is answering
letters on which he has jotted, "Xpress K 3128," "O K," "Refer to Childs," or
"Same terms as usual," and after a time even these brief directions are
rendered unnecessary. It is the sense of responsibility placed upon the
secretary, the knowledge that within reasonable limits his discretion has full
sway but that the employer has confidence in his judgment, which stirs his
initiative and makes him feel competent to render most valuable service.

The Complaint that Secretaries Do Not Think

"But," the objector interposes once more, "all this is assuming that the
secretary is unusually brilliant. Now in my experience, while I would not go so
far as to say they are without brains, the average secretary does not think.
'Think! think!' I have had to tell one secretary after another."

Let us analyze this complaint which has been voiced in one form or another by
many executives—the detailed and reiterated directions these secretaries
require, their lack of insight into the day's work. It is granted that no brief
could be maintained for all private secretaries; their ranks have been invaded
by the incompetent and all are human. But as a rule the failure to get things
done as the executive wants them is because he does not know himself what he
wants, consistently. It is the lack of system, of standards, which is really to
blame for the tangle, since the whim of the moment, and not a clear-cut
standard, determines whether the typing or the choice of letterhead is to
please him.

In order to satisfy the unsystematic man the secretary must be a mind reader.

The Unsystematic Man Hard to Satisfy

Many secretaries, it is true, are adept in this art. When the look of boredom
on the employer's face has darkened into just the proper shade, they deftly
interrupt the caller and maneuver him towards the door. When the employer comes
in full of "pep," they bring out loads of work, but in sizable lots; when he is
on "fag ends," they side-track the irritating complaint.

To get the most benefit from a secretary's services the wise executive will
himself lead the way in co-operation. By utilizing various short-cut methods
and standardizing his own part of the team's procedure he can save the
secretary's time and strength; this means economical operation.

William A. Field Defines Executive Success

Some business men, it is true, do not wish to standardize their own operations,
just as some others do not know how to delegate work. Yet it is precisely the
exercise of these two arts, delegating and standardizing, which is the
executive's business.

"Analyze the career of the successful business manager," says William A. Field
of the Illinois Steel Company, "and you will find that he has done two things:
by elimination and selection he has fitted competent men to the places at which
the work focuses; by system he has so shifted detail to the shoulders of
subordinates as still to keep the essential facts under his own hand."

A Training School for the Coming Executive

There are few positions, indeed, which do not afford some opportunity to
practice the two activities specified by Superintendent Field as the essentials
of executive success. Even the young manager whose force is but a corporal's
guard, even the beeinner in business who dictates a few letters to a
stenographer, has the opportunity of fitting people to places where the work
focuses and of shifting detail to the shoulders of subordinates so as still to
keep the essential facts under his own hand.

The man who trains himself to work effectively with but a single subordinate is
at the same time developing his power as an executive. The vast bulk of tasks,
termed collectively the firm's business, he later will become able to subdivide
and delegate as he now does the work heaped upon his office desk. The principle
is simple,yet its influence is most far reaching upon the executive's daily
accomplishment and his ultimate achievement.

Exercises

The Waste of Petty Annoyances

A drizzle of petty annoyances always irritated the late Cyrus H. McCormick,
although he could stand undaunted under a cloudburst of adversity. Superfluous
words in a telegram, a bill a few cents too large, the loss of a carpet
slipper, were things which made him storm. "He made more fuss over a
pin-prick," declared one of his valets, "than he did over a surgical
operation."

Do the petty odds and ends of business get on your nerves?

Is all the energy with which you come down to the office used up on trifling
matters, leaving you irritated with yourself and all your co-workers?

Are important initiatives and decisions side-tracked and lost sight of while
the devil of routine rules you with his Iron fork?

Delegate to subordinates these routine tasks, and hold the subordinates
responsible for their stewardship.

Important and Unimportant Tasks

In carrying out this plan the executive is called upon to distinguish between
important and unimportant tasks. As William James points out, what makes a
thing important or unimportant to a man is something which no rules can teach
in advance. Still, a pretty safe guide is to keep your chief purpose in mind
for use as a stand

ard in testing all these possible tasks. The more vital the connection between
your chief purpose and a certain task, the closer you should grip that task as
something to which you must personally attend. The more remote tasks are
delegated to subordinates, the far remote perhaps to the waste-basket.

On a sheet of paper draw up Test Chart 4. Selecting some typical day's work as
a sample, fill out the first column in chronological order; and then the other
columns to correspond.

[table][merged small]

In looking over the last column but one of this diagram, in view of the check
marks there shown and your own value to the company as represented by your
salary, how much per week are private secretarial services worth? Add to this
the indirect losses specified on a preceding page, and what is the sum total?

This amount represents with fair accuracy the expenditure justified in your
case for secretarial services. The problem next to be solved is how the
secretarial services purchased by this sum can be employed most productively.
For this purpose Test Chart 5 has been devised. It contains ten questions, to
each of which a possible credit of ten points attaches. Consider your methods
critically as you answer these questions one by one, and credit yourself in the
column at the right a 10, a 5, a 2, or whatever your actual practice in the
light of standard practice will justify. A perfect score is 100 points. What do
your credits total?

Quest1ons

1. Do I know how to delegate work?

2. Have I organized thoroughly the duties of my pres

ent position?

3. Is my work such that the quality of secretarial ser

vices makes an important difference in results?

4. Do the means which I employ secure desirable appli

cants?

5. Are my various selection tests reasonably certain to

secure the applicant best qualified?

6. Does my secretary work under standardized condi

tions with respect to equipment?

7. Do I know consistently what I want in secretarial

results?

8. Is my secretary assuming the responsibilities he

should?

9. Am I cultivating the secretary's initiative?

10. Were I my secretary would I hold my employer's

habits and methods of work in high respect?...

Total.

[ocr errors]

Test Chart 5. Securing Best Results from the Private Secretary

CHAPTER VI

A SERVICEABLE MEMORY

The test of a good memory is that it shall be serviceable; that the mind shall
be furnished and ready with just the sort of facts which may be needed, and
free from the encumbrances of useless, irrelevant, or distracting material.—
Carl Em1l Seashore, Professor of Psychology.

The Tool Which Is Used Most of All

The executive may lighten the burden of details by means of ingenious
mechanical aids; he may standardize to a high degree his working conditions; he
may surround himself with able co-workers; yet there will remain, after all,
certain things which must be entrusted to memory.

It is safe to say that the business man's most immediate need is a serviceable
memory—which means a store of useful knowledge always at hand. Such a memory,
whether material or acquired, is an invaluable aid to success.

"In the practical as in the theoretic life," declares William James with much
truth, "the man whose acquisitions stick is the man who is always achieving and
advancing, whilst his neighbors, spending most of their time in relearning what
they once knew, but have forgotten, simply hold their own."

The Memory that Gets Results

The great importance and obvious utility of a "good" memory have led many
otherwise sensible men to foolish extremes in their pursuit of the kind of
memory that they most admire. To the man who fails to remember names and faces,
a remarkable facility in greeting mere acquaintances of a dozen years ago by
name and station seems the summum bonum of recollection. Many politicians have
gained popularity and fame because of such readiness; William Jennings Bryan,
whose memory is both colossal and exact, is a shining example of this type.
Henry Clay had the same sort of memory.

The men who can learn things by heart are another source of envy to the average
executive. He reads with wistful attention how Macaulay could repeat the "Lady
of the Lake" after hearing it read once and how other literary geniuses

Knew the great uncles of Moses,

And the dates of the Wars of the Roses.

The vital question in such cases is not: "How did these men do it," but "What
good would such a memory do me?'' The lesson to be learned is that what these
men knew and remembered related to their life-work and interest and was
relevant in a natural way to their respective jobs. Their memories were good
because they were serviceable.

If knowing that Mr. Brown's first name is George and that his family has moved
to a charming suburb will help to do that important piece of business with him,
it is worth remembering. If a bit from Gray's "Elegy" will aid you to put over
that big contract, memorize the potent verse. If not, why clutter up the
orderly array of your mental files with rubbish?

Improving the Memory

In setting out in a very practical way to improve the memory, that is, to make
it more serviceable, we shall save both time and effort by distinguishing at
the outset between general retentiveness and methods of using the memory.

It is the conviction of William James, the most eminent psychologist that
America has produced, that, "No amount of culture would seem capable of
modifying a man's general retentiveness. This is a physiological quality, given
once for all with his organization, and which he can never hope to change. It
differs no doubt in disease and health; and it is a fact of observation that it
is better in fresh and vigorous hours than when we are fagged or ill. We may
say, then, that a man's native tenacity will fluctuate somewhat with his
hygiene, and that whatever is good for his tone of health will also be good for
his memory. We may even say that whatever amount of intellectual exercise is
bracing to the general tone and nutrition of the brain will also be profitable
to the general retentiveness. But more than this we cannot say; and this, it is
obvious, is far less than most people believe."

This does not mean that the memory cannot be improved. What is to be
emphasized, however, is the means by which improvement can be brought about.
Abandon attempts to strengthen a general power of memory. Accept without murmur
whatever native capacity for retention you have, but make the most of it by a
proper system.

The Man Who Remembers Is He Who Knows How

This solution need discourage no one. As Professor Seashore points out, "All
normal persons have sufficient capacity, if only they will use it. To be
concrete, the average man does not use above 10 per cent of his actual
inherited capacity for memory. He wastes the 90 per cent by violating natural^/
laws of remembering." Through his superior method of recording facts, one of
limited native retentiveness, in consequence, may outstrip by far his
well-endowed but planless neighbor. System does it. The man who remembers is
the man who knows how.

Why "Memory Systems" Have Long Flourished

Not a few so-called memory systems have been at one time or another
enthusiastically exploited, sometimes with most extravagant claims. The
Loisette system, perhaps the

[ocr errors]

most famous of these, once enjoyed a tremendous vogue. People willingly paid
fifty dollars for its set of lessons, which now, though published in book form
at the modest price of one dollar, are utterly neglected.

These memory devices usually depend upon some framework, which is mechanically
but thoroughly drilled into the mind. Then the fact to be remembered is
associated through some fanciful connection with the framework, which
connection is supposed to recall it.

The Operation of a Typical Memory System

The figure alphabet, as an example, will indicate how such a scheme operates.
Each digit is represented by one or more letters, as:

1, 2. 3. 4. S» 6. 7. 8, 9, o.

t, n, m, r, I, sh, g, f, b, s,

d, j, k, v, p, c,

ch, c, z,

g. qu

"To briefly show its use," explains Mr. Pick as quoted by Professor James,
"suppose it is desired to fix 1,142 feet in a second as the velocity of sound;
t, t, r, n, are the letters and order required. Fill up with vowels forming a
phrase, like 'tight run' and connect it by some such flight of the imagination
as, that if a man tried to keep up with the velocity of sound, he would have a
tight run. When you recall this a few days later great care must be taken not
to get confused with the velocity of light, nor to think he had a hard run
which would be 3,000 feet too fast."

The reader may object to this, saying that he could much more easily learn the
number 1,142 outright. But the advocate comes right back at him. "This plan
will develop your memory. What would you not give to recall"—and he names a
list of things dear to our ambitions. Many business men yield to the argument,
and go naively about their lessons.

Curious Attempts to Strengthen the Memory

The purchasing agent cons the dictionary, believing that when he has doubled
the number of new words he can learn in thirty minutes, his ability to remember
price quotations will be increased. The accountant in his attempt to recall
tables of figures practices on odd combinations of the alphabet, rxy, rtz,
cycyz. Who does not, in fact every day, catch himself pigeonholing some useless
scrap of information—just to strengthen his memory?

Thurlow Weed's Method

A classic example of such practice is the experience of Thurlow Weed, the
famous journalist and politician of reconstruction days. Before we inquire
whether or not he was right, let us see what he did. His account of it reads
thus:

"I could remember nothing. Dates, names, appointments, faces—everything escaped
me. I said to my wife, 'Catherine, I shall never make a successful politician,
for I cannot remember, and that is a prime necessity of politicians.' My wife
told me I must train my memory. So when I came home that night, I sat down
alone and spent fifteen minutes trying silently to recall with accuracy the
principal events of the day. I could remember but little at first; now I
remember that I could not then recall what I had for breakfast. After a few
days' practice I found I could recall more. Events came back to me more
minutely, more accurately, and more vividly than at first. After a fortnight or
so of this Catherine said, 'Why don't you relate to me the events of the day,
instead of recalling them to yourself? It would be interesting, and my interest
in it would be a stimulus to you.' Having great respect for my wife's opinion,
I began a habit of oral confession, as it were, which was continued for almost
fifty years. Every night, the last thing before retiring, I told her everything
I could remember that had happened to me or about me during the day. I
generally recalled the dishes I had had for breakfast, dinner, and tea; the
people I had seen and what they had said; the editorials I had written for my
paper, giving her a brief abstract of them. I mentioned all the letters I had
sent and received,

and the very language used, as nearly as possible; when I
had walked or ridden—I told her everything that had come
within my observation. I found I could say my lessons bet-
ter and better every year, and instead of the practice grow-
ing irksome, it became a pleasure to go over again the
events of the day. I am indebted to this discipline for a
memory of somewhat unusual tenacity, and I recommend the
practice to all who wish to store up facts, or expect to have
much to do with influencing men."

A Wasteful Method

This experience of Mr. Weed's suggests one or two queries. In the first place,
was this tenacious memory which Mr. Weed developed due to an improvement in his
native capacity to remember, or to his paying more careful attention to things
during the day, knowing that he was to be held responsible for them that
evening? William James says the latter explanation is true, that Mr. Weed's
physiological retentiveness was in no way changed by his mental exercise.

In the second place, was there not an enormous amount of waste effort involved?
Think of the time needed, every evening, for such exhaustive resurrection of
the day's experiences! Not every man, besides, can count upon a "Mrs. Weed"
with complaisancy, sympathy, and time to bear her part in the process.

As a rule, we should avoid the waste involved in methods such as Mr. Weed
employed and seek the quickest and easiest ways for making the memory
serviceable.

Since the man who remembers is the man who knows how, it is the problem of
finding the best method of knowing how that presents itself here for analysis
and solution. An idea, reaching the brain through the organs of sight, hearing,
taste, etc., makes an impression. It then comes into contact with ideas already
present, but after a period of association with them, it loses its character of
a newcomer and becomes pigeonholed in the mental equipment. It should remain,
however, responsive to recall, and be able to gain recognition when it answers
the summons* The process of remembering thus consists of four
steps-f-impression, association, recall, and recognition—which will be
discussed in turn^

Rules Of Impression

1. Become Thoroughly Interested

The school boy who, parrot-like, repeats his tables while thinking of that
swimming hole under the old elm, cannot somehow make those tables stick. He has
been cheated of results by mental laziness, the same enemy which years later
still pursues him as a business man. Superficiality, dilettantism, and lack of
interest, are bogs in which forgetfulness has rank growth.

Attention and interest are the handmaidens of memory.

In the front rank of men with a genius for acquiring information stood
Roosevelt. He had an infinite passion for facts, an insatiable thirst for
information; he laid violent hands on details, and he promptly pumped a visitor
dry. The readiness of his memory, in turn, was something to wonder at; whether
it concerned his rough-riders, or a patrolman appointed during police
commissioner days, or some strange bird from the upper Amazon, his mind had it
ever ready at hand. But consider the man—his energy, his enthusiasm, his
dynamic interest in things!

The man who remembers well is alert, interested, mentally alive.

The first rule of impression, accordingly, deals with just this thing; do you
have the aim, the live purpose, the incentive which prepares the mind as a seed
bed for impressions?

2. Be a Specialist, Ignorant of Many Things

The world is so broad, its demands so numerous, that the man interested in
everything spreads himself out too thin. He lacks effectiveness, and in
pronounced cases becomes merely a distracted incompetent.

General interest must be sharpened down to specific interest.

What shall these specific interests be? One's vocational choice largely
determines this. It is presumed he has decided upon some phase of
merchandising, banking, manufacturing, or any other of his thousand
possibilities, as a particular career, and he now tests out every claimant for
attention by the standard of his major purpose. Does it bear a vital connection
to this purpose? If not, it is excluded, even though whole segments of his
possible sphere are shorn away.

3. Concentrate Upon the Essentials of Your Specialty

Even within his specialty, one does not memorize everything. Part of the
information he needs is in book form, part is filed away in his cabinet, while
part is jotted down on his tickler. The mind is then free for high grade work,
because the burden of detail has been turned over to mechanical aids.

Keep the big things in mind—the little things on paper.

This requires that ideas be ranked according to their importance; that thinking
be organized; in other words, that, with his main purpose as a guide, one shall
determine what is significant and what is trivial. "The only a priori advice,"
says James, "that can be given to a man embarking on life with a certain
purpose, is the somewhat barren counsel: 'Be sure that in the circumstances
that meet you, you attend to the right ones for your purpose.' To pick out the
right ones is the measure of the man. The genius is simply he to whom, when he
opens his eyes upon the world, the 'right' characters are the prominent ones.
The fool is he who, with the same purpose as the genius, infallibly gets his
attention tangled amid the accidents."

4. Master as You Go

Retentiveness of memory is somewhat dependent upon the particular channel
through which the consciousness is reached. One man remembers best a name when
he reads it, another when he hears it, another when he writes it down. With
most persons, a combination of impressions is best. Listen to the newcomer's
name and the sound of his voice, feel the quality of his hand-shake, notice his
appearance, write his name down at the first opportunity.

Impress the mind through all possible channels. The result sought is a
clear-cut, definite impression, far different from the blurred image with which
lazy, superficial learning-by-rote provides the mind. Observe sharply,
concentrate, grasp the idea in a single firm impression.

Rules Of Assoc1at1on

1. Analyze for Principles

After impression, comes association. To the efficient memorizer, the process
here is strikingly like the keeping of a stores room. The incoming shipments
are not dumped pellmell into the stores room—at least this method is barred
among our leading business houses—but are arranged systematically.
Classifications, often of an elaborate sort with appropriate symbols, are
prepared, with bins labeled to correspond and a perpetual inventory for the
stores clerk. This gets results. So it is in the mind, when it comes to dealing
with mental materials.

There is nothing occult about this, no mysterious "faculty" of memory. The
brain cells under the impulse of ideas simply arrange themselves in a new
order, or, as it is commonly stated, form a path. "Retention," says William
James, "is not a fact of the mental order at all. It is a purely physical
phenomenon, a morphological feature, the presence of these 'paths' in the
finest recesses of the brain's tissue." The more prominent paths are in general
those over which the trains of thought more frequently move.

Principles are trunk lines running through mental territory.

A principle does not become a principle until it is found to serve as a center
around which details may be grouped, a sort of trunk line to which the details
are feeders. Just as the chief stores clerk in deciding what to do with a
package of screws or bolt of cloth works according to some general system of
classification, so in arranging the mental material we proceed according to a
certain rule.

2. Discover Relationships

The reader who at the time of commencing this book, let us say, owns a Ford,
but later buys a car of a different make, is not thereby obliged to relearn the
automobile. The two cars in many respects are similar, and he soon becomes
familiar with the differences.

By noting similarities and differences the new idea is readily assimilated to
the old.

In noting similarities and differences, one proceeds according to the principle
of relationship. Such relationship may be illustrated very briefly as follows:

, , (automobile Whole and part s „. . . .

r ( I lmkin bearings

^ . a- . {banana peel

Cause and effect -< r _

( we fell on Broadway

[merged small][ocr errors][ocr errors]

In remembering a series of freight bills, we think of them as expenses; in
making several purchases at the corner grocery store, we think of them perhaps
as parts of a picnic dinner.

3. Make Use of Associations

These associations may be obvious, as when Miss Smith is mentally tabbed
"stenographer"; or far-fetched as was the connection between "umbrella" and
"door-way" which a certain man accustomed to forgetting his umbrella, drilled
into his mind with successful effect.

The so-called memory systems are usually nothing beyond more or less artificial
methods of connecting things. In remembering numbers, Loisette, for instance,
gives such illustrations as these: the height of Pike's Peak is 14,147 feet;
observe that the number consists of two fourteens and a half of fourteen.
Fusiyama, the noted volcano of Japan, is 12,365 feet high; observe that this
number is made up of the number of months and days in the year—12 and 365.

Things are retained more easily and more tenaciously when bound together in a
net-work.

"The 'secret of a good memory'," says William James, "is thus the secret of
forming diverse and multiple associations with every fact we care to retain.
But this forming of associations with a fact, what is it but thinking about the
fact as much as possible? Briefly, then, of two men with the same outward
experiences and the same amount of mere native capacity, the one who thinks
over his experiences the most, and weaves them into systematic relations with
each other, will be the one with the best memory. The merchant remembers
prices, the politician other politician's speeches and votes; and both remember
with a copiousness which amazes outsiders, but which the amount of thinking
they bestow upon these subjects easily explains."

4. Bind Elements Into Large Units

These principles of memorizing were applied quite consistently by the late
Edward H. Harriman, and they go far to explain his amazing memory. But Mr.
Harriman's ability well illustrates the fourth principle, which we may state as
the final rule of association.

"When you jump from one thing to another," Mr. Harriman was asked, "do you have
to stop and think and adjust yourself to the new mental condition created by
the consideration of a totally different subject?"

"No," he answered.

"You are not conscious of any change in the speed of the mental machinery, as
it were? No break of any kind when you decide what to do in this case and
immediately what to do in the next—jumping from a matter in New York City to
some engineering problem in Utah or California?"

"No."

"How do you do it?" I asked.

"I don't know. I think," he went on meditatively, "that the mind is like
these—what d'ye call 'em on this desk?— these pigeonholes. A man comes to me. I
listen and decide on what to do; and then—it goes into a pigeonhole."

"And it's always there? No trouble in finding it again at any time?"

"It's always there." He was thinking, obviously looking for an explanation.
"It's always there. Whenever I need it again I find it there."

"And you don't know how you do it?"

"I don't know how I do it," he repeated after me, almost hypnotically.
Evidently he was trying to find out. But after a moment he shook his head and
said: "But there are fewer pigeonholes, I think."

The secret, if one prefer to call it such, is revealed in the words, "There are
fewer pigeonholes." He bound elements into larger units.

To Mr. Harriman, an earth embankment was not an earth embankment but a straight
track between two stations. This straight track between two stations was no
isolated detail, but a part of the Union Pacific Railroad. And this in turn was
but a link in that world-wide transportation system which was Mr. Harriman's
goal. Spikes, rails, and ties he bound into construction units; construction
units in turn he bound into railway units; and these finally he thought of as
parts of a vast system—an orderly yet progressive sequence in thought.

Rules Of Recall

I. Recall With Accuracy

Ideas impressed upon the brain and woven into its fiber, are retained; in other
words, they stick. It is not, however, for that purpose that one remembers. His
aim in memorizing ideas is to have them when he wants them. Retention is
valuable only as it insures recall. The problem now becomes how to employ
methods which will insure this.

The stock keeper of the mental stores, like any subordinate under lax
discipline, is apt to fall into slothful habits. When called upon to produce a
certain idea with which he has been intrusted, he perhaps returns a hazy,
blurred copy of the original. Should this be accepted, he degenerates into
still more negligent ways, until finally the requisitions drawn upon him are
filled with whatever causes least exertion. Such easy-going and slovenly recall
must be resolutely prohibited from the first; "rule thy servant or he shall
rule thee."

2. Concentrate on the Relevant

Scarce has inaccuracy been avoided before another and yet more serious
difficulty arises. The mental stores are re

turned accurately enough, but without discrimination. As Mr. Business Man
recalls the directors' meeting, the scene as a whole comes clearly before him,
then some certain incident connected with the chairman, next the chairman's
fishing party followed by his own thrilling capture of a black bass, until
finally, Mr. Business Man finds himself mind-wandering far from his original
starting point.

To recall completely all one has ever experienced would require as many years
as this experience originally occupied. Abbreviation and condensation are
absolutely necessary; the four hours directors' meeting can with profit be
boiled down possibly to four minutes, and as for the black bass—none of it for
the business day! The essentials only are wanted, and all else which presents
itself should be repressed as irrelevant.

3. Repeat the Recall Frequently

The rather common way of memorizing is to repeat again and again the
impression. Drill, drill, drill! It is felt that memorizing should precede
thinking, for logically ought we not store the mind with the necessary raw
materials before trying to reflect upon them? "The most important part of every
Musselman's training," says Ratzel, "is to learn the Koran, by which must be
understood learning it by heart, for it would be wrong to wish to understand
the Koran till one knew it by heart."

This process is extremely wasteful. It emphasizes impressions, whereas what is
desired is ability to recall. One recall is worth a dozen impressions.

The correct procedure is first to stamp the mind with a clear impression, then
to repeat not the impression but the recall. In this way one develops a
wonderful set of grappling hooks, prompt and accurate in bringing to the
surface what is wanted.

4. Seek Out Clues Persistently

In not a few cases, however, when one seeks to recall a memory image, no
response is secured; the image apparently is lost. Again, it trembles on the
threshold, but does not come forth. What can be done in such cases?

Mere blind persistence has a value, just as the man of the house, in looking
for a pack of cards may go from room to room turning things up-side-down, and
perhaps after a time, come upon said pack in a table drawer. But all this means
hard work, hence, as Seashore points out, if the memory image is not at command
so soon as sought we all too readily conclude that we cannot reach it.

The old injunction of try, try again has much merit here. But not planless
trying, no mere stolid turning over of stones. The object sought is not lost in
some isolated crevice of the mind, but has connected itself with some other
object, which in turn becomes available as a clue. Seek connections
systematically. Go through the mind in the manner of Sherlock Holmes.

Rules Of Recognition

1. Recognize with Vividness

After recall comes recognition. The image desired has risen from the mental
recesses, and is now at command. Shall one think, "Yes, this is right," in a
dry sort of way, and then think no more?

Scarcely! Our friend comes to mind not as two mere words, "John Smith," a
colorless image, but as some one with brown eyes, wavy hair, cheviot suit,
walking stick, and so on, not forgetting the cheery smile. He is a real flesh
and blood person.

The image, abundant in detail and intense in its recall, enables its possessor
to relive the scene as in the original; it makes recognition realistic and
tangible.

2. Express the Recognition Appropriately

In the most subtle way, mind and body are Knit together. Every thought tends to
express itself in action, every action tends to influence thought.

The staid executive who in telling football stories some Sunday afternoon for
the benefit of his boys, crouches on the rug as he illustrates the fierceness
of his tackling just in front of Old Eli's goal, does more than carry his
listeners with him. He makes the story real to himself. He is reliving the
scene, with all its appropriate actions.

Most of our mental furnishings, in fact, were gained through action of some
sort, be it even so prosaic as walking or smiling; and the recognition of these
ideas stored in memory gains in vividness as these same actions accompany the
recall.

3. (Trust Your Memory /

But perhaps after all the idea recognized is the wrong one; are we not possibly
being tricked? Questions such as this once raised are so hard to down that not
a few persons are always uneasy with the lurking suspicion that their memory is
playing them false.

What stores clerk bent on filling his requisitions with accuracy and dispatch
would improve, if continually suspected, questioned, and accused? Would not
this miasma of doubt finally break down his moral fiber, make him in reality
the inaccurate, hopeless, incompetent he was suspected of being?

Just so with the memory. Doubt clogs its action, confidence inspires it to
better service. Do not therefore be anxious, for your memory under good
treatment will serve you well.

4. Forget the Useless

The memory, however trustworthy it may be, deals with the past. But the
efficient man lives in the present, and looks forward to the future. Let the
dead past bury its dead. What cares he for it save as it aids him now and
serves as a guide to the future.

The memory, accordingly, must be selective. While holding tenaciously those
items which are worth holding, it must nevertheless refuse to thumb over in the
files day after day the transactions long since closed. Such useless
accumulations, dead timber, should be allowed to float gently out upon the
stream of thought into oblivion. A good memory and a good "forgettery" are firm
allies.

Few persons have the resolution to do this. Like the hermit of the story books,
always collecting but never throwing anything away, the majority run the risk
of guarding with jealous care a junk heap. Yet such watchful guarding, besides
being wasteful, is unnecessary because the idea forgotten still serves us.

We are the sum total of all our yesterdays, and even the idea lost beyond
recall has had its influence in making us what we are. "Although the ready
memory is a great blessing to its possessor," says William James, "the vaguer
memory of a subject, of having had to do with it, of its neighborhood, and of
where we may go to recover it again, constitutes in most men and women the
chief fruit of their education." This chief fruit is not lost through the
admonition, "keep the mental decks cleared for action."

But the mind in parting with its useless material does experience a feeling of
relief, and its energy freed from the task of watchful waiting can deal with
the needs of today. In getting through the day's work and the year's work,
forgetting is as important as remembering.

Summary of Rides

The rules of memory culture will now be summarized, that the leader more
readily may make them his own. (See Figure 13.)

[table]

Sigure 13. The Various Steps in Semory Culture are Here Summarized

The steps in memory culture are direct, certain, perfectly practical, and the
goal itself is worthy of attainment. But the only way to reach this goal is
through practice, practice, practice.

Exercises

Conditions of Memorizing

Some evening when you are "dead tired" memorize the following, or some other
verse if you are familiar with this, noting the time required before, with the
book closed, you can repeat it with confidence:

The boast of heraldry, the pomp of pow'r,
And all that beauty, all that wealth e'er gave,

Await alike the inevitable hour.
The paths of glory lead but to the grave.

The next morning after such a good night's sleep that you feel thoroughly
refreshed, memorize in a similar way this or some other verse, of about the
same difficulty as the first:

Full many a gem of purest ray serene
The dark unfathom'd caves of ocean bear;

Full many a flower is born to blush unseen,
And waste its sweetness on the desert air.

Compare the amount of time required. After two weeks have elapsed, see which
verse you can recall more completely.

What do you conclude as to fatigue versus freshness, ill-health versus
vitality, in making things stick in the mind?

Methods of Memorizing

Here are three columns of words which you are to study in each case three
minutes, exactly as directed:

porosity recreant reagent

plebeian matadore anachronism

hawser diurnal harbinger

platoon posteria postulate

thesaurus stereoptical erysipelas

Study Column i by sound. Listen carefully as someone spells the words aloud to
you, trying to remember each sound; have him continue the spelling, you
meanwhile trying to impress the ear, until the three minutes have elapsed. How
many words do you remember? How many do you spell correctly?

Study Column 2 visually. Look sharply at the letters, the number of them in
each word, their appearance and order, trying hard for three minutes to impress
the eye. How many can you remember? Write correctly?

Study Column 3 by a combined method. Spell them aloud to yourself, scrutinize
the letters sharply, write them down. Appeal this time to ear, eye, and muscle.
How many can you remember? Spell correctly?

Compare the results. In impressing your mind which approach seems the best?
Should you wish to recall names more readily, what suggestions do you draw from
this exercise?

As a further test we have here four columns of ten words each:

[table]

Study intently Columns I and II, then cover this second column with a sheet of
paper. How long a time is required before, by looking at Column I meanwhile,
you can repeat correctly in order each word in Column II?

Study now with equal care and for the same length of time Columns III and IV,
then covering the latter with a paper and looking at Column III, how many words
of Column IV can you repeat correctly in order?

Why is the second test so much more difficult than the first? What principles
of memorizing are here illustrated?

Not Just Plodding, But Planning

When you deliberately sit down and consciously exercise your memory, "keep your
eye on the ball." Do not think about indefinite or incongruous things. Take one
definite starting point and group other details around it. Narrow your field of
recognition and recollection, and multiply all the associations which bear upon
the topic you wish to master.

When our government began making frames of airplanes for the Liberty
Motor—Samuel Blythe tells us in the Saturday Evening Post—they needed spruce,
and more spruce—and needed it "seasoned." The wet, sappy wood was no good for
the purpose and the only known seasoning process was nature's own which took
from twelve to eighteen months.

Some experts went to work on the problem and found a way to shorten the time to
four months, but even that was too long. Then "the best brains in the country
tackled the job and a process was devised by which spruce can be seasoned and
made ready for use in fourteen days. It is a process of seasoning by
saturation, too technical to be detailed here; but it works."

The efficient man can do something of the kind with his memory. Saturate your
mind with impressions and associations connected with the sort of facts you
wish to remember, and then concentrate your attention; you can make more speedy
and more sure the process of getting command of your mental stores.

PART III

THE DISPATCH OF A DAY'S WORK

The leaders in action or thought are not magicians but steady, persistent
workers.—Theodore N. Vail, President American Telephone and Telegraph Company.

CHAPTER VII

PLANNING THE DAY'S WORK

He who every morning plans the transactions of the day, and follows out that
plan holds a thread that will carry him through the labyrinth of the most busy 
life.—Victor Hugo.

The Economy of Well-Planned Activities

The mechanical aids, standardized office, competent subordinates and dependable
memory so far discussed, afford a reliable basis for personal system, but they
are only the basis. Each of these factors must be skilfully applied to specific
tasks before a full mastery over routine is attained.

In large measure, this skilful application to specific tasks depends upon
planning. The items which comprise the day's work must be surveyed, analyzed,
ranked in relative importance, and attacked in a carefully organized way. Such
systematic procedure, while of importance to every business man, is of especial
importance to the executive, since in his capacity as business general,
superior results or lack of results, as the case may be, are multiplied
manifold in the activities of subordinates.

On the Offensive

The plan as an instrument for the attainment of results exalts imagination and
foresight, instead of "hindsight" and vain regrets. Precision is impossible
without prevision.

"The marksman who had no bull's-eye to aim at," very truly observed President
Cottingham of the Sherwin-Williams Company, "never made the top record. I
believe in knowing just what I am doing, and where I hope to land."

The plan keeps a man on the offensive; "push the work, don't let it push you,"
is the ideal it makes realizable. The man who does not plan is crowded by
unexpected tasks and is haunted by yesterday's loose ends. He is always on the
defensive, while others with more foresight wage wars of aggression.

"I have found it most satisfactory," observed the late President Easton, of the
Columbia Graphophone Company, "to so systematize my work that the weak spot is
evident long before the leak appears. This leaves me the strength that some men
put into the losing fight, to devote instead to the initiative."

Definite Accomplishment

The mental health which comes from planning one's work is not the least of its
benefits. Dr. Adolph Meyer, one of the most distinguished alienists of the
present day, made the discovery that among the untransmitted causes of insanity
none counts more prominently than the big idea; the idea that never can be
fully made over into concrete reality for the very reason that it is so big.
The far-reaching scheme, the still unsubstantiated venture, the revolutionary
theory, the momentous but unperfected invention—all have it in them to take
possession of a man; they hold him day and night; he cannot get away.

The road back to healthy-mindedness is to be learned from the man who works at
smaller tasks. He attacks these jobs directly and successfully. They are
finishable; and as one after another is put out of his way, he enjoys the
satisfaction and the sense of freedom which come from a definite
accomplishment. The big idea broken into parts becomes similarly get-at-able.
Neither its magnitude nor its compelling lure dissipate the confidence as the
parts, according to pre-arranged plan, are attacked in turn. Thus planning does
more for the distracted worker than clear away the day's work, it insures for
him a healthy mind and a positive attitude toward life which keeps him mentally
on the offensive.

A well-considered plan of procedure may appear slow to some readers, who with a
fine disdain for system, are accustomed to push directly into the day's work.
"Strenuosity," "hustling," the attitude of "pushing things through," are indeed
traits which as a people the Americans have long admired. But all traits,
however long admired, must be judged by results. Can planless strenuosity meet
successfully this test?

Colonel Roosevelt An Orderly Worker

The name of Colonel Roosevelt is synonymous with "strenuosity" in popular
thought. But Colonel Roosevelt represented the very incarnation of order and
regularity in his work. "Every morning," wrote "K" in the American Magazine, 
during the Colonel's term as president, "Secretary Loeb places a typewritten
list of his engagements for the day on his desk, sometimes reduced to five
minute intervals. And no railroad engineer runs more sharply upon his schedule
than he. His watch comes out of his pocket, he cuts off an interview, or signs
a paper, and turns instantly, according to his time-table, to the next
engagement. If there is an interval anywhere left over he chinks in the time by
reading a paragraph of history from the book that lies always ready at his
elbow or by writing two or three sentences in an article on Irish folk-lore, or
bear-hunting.

"Thus he never stops running, even while he stokes and fires; the throttle is
always open; the engine is always under a full head of steam. I have seen
schedules of his engagements which showed that he was constantly occupied from
nine o'clock in the morning, when he takes his regular walk in the White House
grounds with Mrs. Roosevelt, until midnight, with guests at both luncheon and
dinner. And when he goes to bed he is able to disabuse his mind instantly of
every care and worry and go straight to sleep; and he sleeps with perfect
normality and on schedule time."

Such careful planning as this stands the test of results. The man who neglects
to plan, but is merely "pushing," tears his way through great heaps of
correspondence, sends hurryup calls, answers the telephone, rushes away to
conference in whatever sequence these tasks force themselves upon him. This
poor man is, as he puts it, literally "worked to death." For all that, because
of his defective system, he gets little done; concentration is lost,
perspective is lost, output cannot be secured.

A Survey of the Day's Work

The executive convinced that planning can secure for him an increased capacity
next considers how to put such planning into practical operation. Here he faces
a problem, whose solution has not yet been worked out with completeness.
Factory processes, office furniture, the work of subordinate officials and
clerks and the like have become highly standardized, but just what is the
executive's routine and just what methods should he employ? Any authoritative
answer to these questions depends upon records, analyses, and classifications
as yet incomplete.

It is safe to say, however, that everyone finds awaiting him when he reaches
his desk in the morning material of four kinds:

1. Unfinished tasks which are on file in the "pending" pocket of the day's work
file, or in the folders of the vertical letter file, or in a desk drawer
reserved for such material.

2. The morning mail plus telegrams, telephone calls, or other special messages
that have arrived.

3. The tickler or its substitute, such as a calendar pad, a diary, or
note-book, which contains memoranda.

4. Various regular items whose recurrence is too common a matter for recording
specially.

The basis for scientific planning in factory management was obtained from a
great many experiments taken with stopwatch, slide-rule, etc. Out of the
multitude of individual records, generalizations and averages emerged at last,
and reliable, convenient rules for general use were formulated. The man in an
executive position can do somewhat the same thing with regard to his own work.

The Elements of Planning

In surveying these various items with the object of weaving them into some
systematic arrangement of his time, the executive raises certain questions
which are basic in all planning:

1. Object. What is my aim or purpose?

2. Methods. Which of the various methods available best affect this object?

3. Equipment. Under what standardized conditions as to equipment are the above
methods most effective?

4. Materials. What working materials do I require?

5. Sequence. In what order shall the various items or operations be attended to
or performed?

6. Time. What is the standard time, if any, for completing each step or
operation required?

7. Inspection. By what standards will the results be tested?

An intelligent plan based upon the information called for by these seven
questions represents a most important step toward the attainment of results.

The Waste of Unplanned Work

The executive who pays little or no heed to the foregoing elements of planning
usually will be found wasting time and energy in ways such as these:

1. Needless shifting of employment—stopping and starting.

2. Poor sequence of operations, involving often doing of less important things
first and the massing of important tasks together regardless of the rhythm of
effort and thus wasting energy.

3. Wrong perspective—proportioning time unwisely.

4. Wrong methods of approach—or wrong strategy in dealing with the various
tasks.

5. Packing the working day too full—no free time for emergency tasks.

Careful analysis reveals relationships among different experiences, and enables
a man to establish a few controlling accounts for his expenditure and
investment of effort and time. By working out a standardized procedure for the
regular case he can save time and strength for the exceptions.

The Assistance of Systematic Planning

Standardized procedure cuts off the waste characteristic of unplanned work.
More than that, by its deliberate and" systematic arrangement of the work, it
leads to positive results:

I. It shows the nature, relation, and order of importance, among a series of
seemingly individual items. It classifies them into "constants," those which
recur regularly in much the same form, and "variables," which are not thus
regular; and into matters of greater and of less importance.

(a) Constants may be handled in the mass with a

minimum of effort and thus more time is left for variables.

(b) Minor matters can be subordinated and priority

be given to those of larger importance.

2. By enabling the worker to foresee his various tasks it enables him:

(a) To determine in advance the method he will

use for each task or each group of tasks.

(b) To get ready for special efforts, to meet

special needs.

3. It gives the worker confidence. He knows that he is not wasting his strength
and is in no danger of blocks on the line; therefore he does not worry.

Illustrations of Systematic Planning

The whole matter of planning the day's work is simplified by a study of the
programs worked out by executives of known ability. Some of these are given
below:

William H. Ingersoll, whose mercantile genius is largely responsible for "the
Watch that Made the Dollar Famous," arranges his work according to a most
systematic plan, using both a weekly and a daily program. The weekly program is
shown in Figure 14.

With this goes a daily program, shown in Figure 15. This form, which is filled
out at the beginning of each day, gives a complete outline of the day's work,
noting engagements with outside people and any deviation from the set weekly
program.

[merged small][table][merged small]

In the schedule shown in Figure 14 the following letters represent—

C Staff of Home Office Bureau Chiefs

S Bureau of Sales Promotion (salesmen and other)

X Bureau of Experimental and Special Duties

G General Service Bureau

DM Bureau of Domestic Branches (Co- and supervision)

FM Bureau of Foreign Branches

P Bureau of Publicity and Advertising

R Bureau of Export (direct markets)

BM Bureau of Organization Maintenance and Standard Practice

T Bureau of Scheme and Special Sales

The blank spaces represent time in which the executive works by himself and the
following are the duties which he aims to cover in that time:

1. Plans, schemes, producing

2. Study of reports

3. Get ready for conferences (i. e., assemble material, etc.)

4. Reading materials submitted to him and minutes of previous con

ference meetings

5. Reading clippings and articles of special interest

6. Problems in general management—constant subjects

Some Typical Daily Plans*

1. Daily Program Of Auditor For
Street Railway Company

8:30- 9:00 A.M. Read mail and give orders to chief clerk

and any others 9:00- 9:30" Dictate letters

9:30-10:00" Countersign any checks and approve

vouchers and bills 10:00-11:30" Open to callers (including any clerks)

and personal inspection of work of the

general office
11:30-12:00" Business with other officers
12 :oo- 1:30 P.m. Lunch

•These sample schedules were secured by Carroll D. Murphy of System, who also
presents in the sixth his suggestions as to what duties should appear in the
day's work schedule.

1:30- 2:00 P.m. Dictate letters

2:00- 3:00" Approve vouchers, bills, and other documents

3:00- 4:30" Open to calls (including any clerks) and

work on any special matters 4:30- 5:15" Sign letters and statements 5:15-5:30"
Open

2. A Manufacturer's Schedule

8:30 Reading, sorting, and distributing mail

9 :oo Correspondence

10 :oo Conferences

11:00 Planning

12 :oo Luncheon

1:30 General office, sales, and advertising propositions

3 :oo Correspondence

3:30104:30 Invariably held open for consideration of matters not possible to
dispose of during the day

3. A Sales Manager's Schedule

8:00 Reading and answering telegrams; study of

day's schedule 8:20 Talk to city salesmen

8:30 Confer with heads of departments; study re

ports and charts previous day's business 9:00 Mail and correspondence

11:30 Luncheon. Usually with some out-of-town cus

tomer or at some business club

1 :oo Reading afternoon mail. Write out-of-town

salesmen and branches

2 :oo Appointments with solicitors 4:00 Correspondence

S :oo Signing correspondence

5.'30to6:00 Usually stroll around office and plant and talk with employees,
picking up information as to how things are going.

PROGRAM OF THE DAY

APPOINTMENTS

12

EVENINC:

Figure IS- Schedule for Daily Work This is the schedule sheet upon which \V. H.
Ingersoll makes out his day's work.

4. A Bank Cash1er's Schedule

6:30 Rise

7:30 Breakfast

8 :oo Newspapers

8:30 Brisk walk for thirty minutes

9:00 Look over mail

9:30 Take care of correspondence

10:00 Attend to business as it comes

12:30 Luncheon

1:30 Regular business

3:00 Check the day's work

4:00 Personal letters

4:30 to 5:00 A casual walk 6:00 Dinner

Till 10:30 Current news and other reading. Two evenings of the week along
banking lines and two other evenings along advertising lines.

5. Daily Working Plan Of Manager
Of Mail-order Sales

MORNING

0 to 10:30 o'clock

Study sales received in morning mail, and sources thereof. Study the sales
total for month so far, and its relation to the monthly sales quota
established.

Make definite notes for further research, planning, and sales effort, depending
upon tendencies indicated by status of sales to date.

10:30 to 11 o'clock Correspondence. // to 12 o'clock

Conferences and discussions with members of advertising, copy-writing, and
sales staff.

12 to 12:30 O'clock

Arrange actual copy-writing and plan work for the afternoon.

12:30 to 1:15 o'clock—Lunch.

AFTERNOON

1:15 to 4:30 o'clock

Actual mail sales planning. Close study of various channels of outlet, and
particular copy appeal required on each list for each unit to be sold.

Assigning of copy-writing work to members of staff.

Personal copy-writing by mail-order manager. 4:30 to 5 o'clock

Follow up the regularly scheduled mail-order work going through. Check up with
members of staff as to actual mailings and their routing through, according to
schedule.

6. Duties Recommended For Schedule
By Carroll D. Murphy, In "system"

(a) Correspondence

(b) Conferences for:

(1) Coaching men

(2) Getting facts

(3) Giving orders

(c) Customers

(d) Interruptions

(e) "Mixing"

(f) Studying reports, planning, and individual work—block

ing out the next move and the proper policy

(g) Reading and keeping in touch with the trend of busi

ness

Preparing Your Plan

Though valuable as suggestions, the foregoing plans should not be adopted
unchanged, as the plan which works most effectively for a specific executive
depends primarily upon an analysis of his particular duties. Such an analysis
involves the keeping of a record for a period of several days, possibly weeks,
of everything that is done during the working day. It may be well also to
include in this record the things which suggest themselves but which somehow
are crowded out; they oftentimes represent choice opportunities which have been
neglected.

A study of these records will soon reveal certain groupings, which means that
the outlines of a day's work plan, are beginning to emerge. Needless to say
there will be wide variety in the results obtained by different men. Some
executives have merely an ordinary round of activities; with others it may seem
at first that the only regular feature of their work is its irregularity. But
in any case it will be profitable to raise a few definite questions in regard
to the day's work—to run a few "levels" as a surveyor does in laying out a
street.

Classifying Your Work

The first and most important question to apply is that of the kind of activity
involved in each kind of task which enters your regular day—whether it appears
as a constant item or merely comes once in a while. That activity may consist
of:

1. Personal study, or formation of opinion. This may be done either:

(a) Through thinking things out for oneself.

(b) Through examination of data which have been

collected for the executive.

2. Inspecting work of others. This may include:

(a) Routine O K'ing of pieces of work presented

by subordinates.

(b) Supervising subordinates, examining equip

ment, etc.

(c) Remedying trouble.

(d) Inspection work outside the office.

3. Consultation. This may include:

(a) Reporting to superiors.

(b) Explaining "the law" to subordinates.

(c) General discussion of points of policy or

methods.

(d) Argument regarding the adoption of a par

ticular plan.

A second question is that of an executive's relation to a given piece of work
or to any part of it. His function may be that of:

1. Originating the idea; visualizing it and explaining or "selling" it to his
associates.

2. Developing or promoting an idea by someone else; what is required on his
part is loyal and sympathetic elaboration of people's plans.

3. Reviewing, checking, testing; what is required of him is to see that
specifications have been properly complied with.

Thinking over the various groups of tasks which the record shows enter his
working day will enable a person to decide pretty definitely regarding each
group:

1. Whether it should be given a regular place in his daily schedule or may be
disposed of in one of his "free" periods.

2. Whether it must be taken up according to the convenience of other persons.

3. Whether it requires fresh energy, or may be handled on "exhaust steam."

4. What is required in the way of office conditions and conveniences? Is it
seriously affected by noise, by a crowded office, etc.?

The effort to apply the above questions, or similar questions devised for
yourself, will reveal to you perhaps things you have not realized regarding the
character and relationships of the tasks which make up your regular working
day.

Applying the Analysis in a Definite Plan

The next thing, which at first thought may appear much more difficult, is to
rearrange the working time so far as possible to fit more perfectly with the
tasks to be done. Very likely the reader will say at once: "This is impossible.
Definite plans do very well for the president or general manager, but not for
the subordinate. My own position involves continual adaptation to the calls of
other persons—superiors— subordinates—outsiders. My duty is to be ready for any
duty. I could not hold to a plan through a single day. I may plan, in a sense,
for a month or a week—that is, outline the work

to be covered and in general the order to be followed, but no more!"

To those who know the history of planning as applied to the factory these
remarks have a strangely familiar sound. In reply it may be said that even if
your time is wholly "at call" you can determine to a considerable extent to
which calls you will give priority, both in order of attention and in the
amount of time allowed. The difference in effectiveness, in the amount of
accomplishment by different executives, turns largely on this. The junior
executive may be swept on by the current, but even he can to a large degree
lessen or increase the expenditure of time and effort it involves.

Moreover, one can plan how to meet different sorts of calls. The "trouble man"
of the telephone company, for instance, cannot plan in advance where he will be
needed, but he can prepare definite means for dealing with the various types of
emergencies which occur. And after all the "trouble men" in any business which
is really well organized are few. Every executive has at his own disposal a
much larger proportion of his working day than he is apt to think—providing he
has learned to utilize the odd minutes.

Study of time is as illuminating and useful as study of pnysical layout. Nearly
every man will find, on making such an analysis as has been suggested above,
that he is wasting some of his free hours, or half-hours, upon duties which
could be perfectly well disposed of at odd times. Few of us utilize the
ten-minute or five-minute intervals which come to even the busiest "trouble
man." Yet there are only 42 ten-minute intervals in the seven hours of the
working day. Mr. Vanderlip, so The American Magazine for January, 1918,
relates, makes much use of two-minute interviews. It is decidedly worth while
to make an analysis and draw up a plan—even if the plan must be scrapped the
first day. The attempt at a more orderly distribution of his time is an
adventure in which a man cannot lose; he is certain to gain in what is most
important, namely in clarifying his own mind as to the nature, relationship,
and comparative importance of the tasks with which he has to deal. Once having
taken such a trial balance of his individual duties and resources he knows
better what to do with almost every task which presents itself. Then, when
exceptional new items appear, he has the time to spare if they seem to require
it.

A Trouble Man's Daily Program

To indicate the reasonableness of the planning which has been described, we may
cite here the manner in which the industrial engineer connected with a large
manufacturing plant has organized his day.

This man is the trouble man for the entire organization. Any department head
who has difficulty in his relations with any other department in regard to
securing data, reports, or co-operation, calls upon him to devise schemes for
overcoming such trouble. He has assisting him a staff of experts who are given
assignments from time to time working up the details of these schemes. Thus
this man's time is never his own and he must always be and is available to such
demands as are made of him.

He has discovered, however, that his daily schedule can be laid out much more
regularly than might be supposed. The time of the various executives of the
organization, whose convenience he must meet, is itself arranged in a varying
order of routine and extra work. Through careful study of their time-tables he
has made one for himself which is surprisingly regular.

Arriving at eight o'clock in the morning, he spends fifteen minutes in
setting-up exercises under the directions of an instructor. All the office
executives take this practice as a means of invigorating themselves for the
day's work. The next fifteen minutes are spent looking over any mail which has
come in the first morning's delivery and dictating answers to letters, etc.,
which require attention. The majority of calls which are planned in advance are
received by phone, and on the whole, the work of the day can be scheduled at
this time.

At 8:30 the various superintendents bring in their troubles for a routine
conference and adjustment, the industrial engineer acting as the referee. At
nine o'clock is held the daily staff conference of his subordinates. Each of
these makes daily reports of what he proposes to do in laying out the schemes
of adjustment.

10:30 to 11 is set aside for appointments in which the factory executives or
department heads are given the preference. The last forty-five minutes of the
morning are given to appointments, looking over the correspondence waiting for
signature, or incoming mail. Lunch takes the time until 1:15. The next fifteen
minutes is spent in looking over any calls which may have come in and
scheduling the afternoon's work and preparing for the daily half-hour
conference with the general manager, which is from 1 130 to 2 o'clock. At this
time, all matters which will have any effect upon the company's policies are
discussed with the engineer's superior with an idea of getting final rulings.
From 2 to 3 is set aside for conference with subordinates covering their
assignments. The rest of the afternoon is open for handling all special matters
requiring attention. For instance, the first fifteen minutes are spent in field
inspection of the new stores system. Next, the machine layout in the new
foundry building is inspected for the output of a new line of goods. Half an
hour is taken for discussion of the plans for production of new lines of
hardware.

The last hour and a half, or until 5 :30, is open for appointments,
conferences, other inspections, signing the afternoon's mail, and handling any
other routine matters. When he goes home for the evening he sorts uncompleted
work for the attention of his subordinates in the morning, if it can be handled
by them, or for delay until a still later period. After that, all this
executive's time is taken up for these special calls and requirements. Certain
periods are set aside for the calls of the specific kinds of executives such as
superintendents, department heads, managers, and so on, and the important
engagements come first in the morning so that the detail work on them may be
completed during the rest of the day.

If this man's work can be planned, who shall say that his own case is hopeless?

Better Results from Planning

The user of daily plans soon comes to recognize in them the antidote to
efficiency's great enemy, aimlessness.

"Our energies may be wasted and our genius misdirected," says John V. Farwell,
founder of the John V. Farwell Company, "unless we can guide them to definite
ends; unless we can use our forces to get specific results."

The man who plans the day's work does not aimlessly wonder what to do next. He
knows, and knows with definiteness, and his efforts are directed incessantly
toward specific attainment.

Nevertheless, in common with most things really worth while, plans require a
certain discrimination both in their preparation and in their use.

The following plan prepared by a manufacturer shows a curious lack of such
discrimination. The factory hours here were from 8 to 12 and 12 45 to 5, and
the president's personal schedule was found to read as follows:

8:00- 9:00 Looking over mail
9:00-10:00 Dictation of correspondence

10:00-11:00 Conference with sales manager

11 :oo-i2 :oo Conference with foremen

12:00- 1:00 Luncheon

1 :oo- 2 :oo Correspondence

2:00-3:00 Planning

3:00- 4:00 Conferences and miscellaneous

4 :oo- 5 :oo Plant inspection

This manufacturer had in his employ as sales manager an unusually competent
man, but acted as his own works manager. Yet he spent the first two hours of
the morning over his mail and correspondence, much of which pertained to the
sales department and could profitably have been referred there directly, and a
third hour with a man who needed little attention, while affairs in the shops
were scheduled to wait for attention until eleven o'clock. Again in the
afternoon when he might well have been inspecting the shops or conferring with
foremen, he scheduled another hour for correspondence.

His tasks, no doubt, were all worth doing, but he did not put first things
first.

"To every thing there is a season and a time to every purpose under the
heaven."

How Much Time Is This Task Worth?

In planning, give each task the time it is worth.

If trifles have been eating up one's time the plan will show it. The odds and
ends left hanging over when the time limits are reached prove not that a more
generous allowance should be made—the tasks are not worth it—but that routine
work must be speeded up.

In delegating certain items and compressing others through short-cuts, the
executive exercises constantly his sense of relative values. It is here that
the ability of men such as Hugh Chalmers shows itself. Mr. Chalmers when he
reaches his desk each morning has before him a list of the "Ten Most Important
Things To Do Today." This list means that its

maker is a man of discrimination, that he possesses perspective. It may be
worth while adding that Mr. Chalmers, the founder of the Chalmers Motor Car
Company, once entered the National Cash Register Company in a very minor
position, but was advanced by President Patterson until he drew annually a
salary of $72,000.

It is worthy of note here that this habit of concentrating upon the more vital
matters is characteristic of most of our successful executives. It largely
accounts for the fact that they are successful executives.

It is important to keep a proper prospective, to recognize the essentials.

Why Write Out the Plan?

The plan is the product of hard thinking, and hard thinking should not be done
twice. Its first results must be preserved and utilized and this becomes
feasible only when they are recorded.

"Five years of planned, attained, and recorded progress," says Harrington
Emerson, "will accomplish more than twenty years of rule-of-thumb tucked away
under the hats of shifting employees." The record, Mr. Emerson points out, is a
ratchet, which holds on to every gain made and allows no slips backward.
Time-tables, blue-prints, office manuals, rule books, purchasing
specifications, chemical formulae, geodetic maps, legal codes, what are all
these but rachets for past thoughts and guides to present effort?

Moreover, the writing down of the plan increases the likelihood that it will be
carried out successfully. If his routine plan is always at hand in the form,
say, of a printed memo, a man has a regular time-table to which he will keep
trying more or less consciously to accommodate the tasks of the individual day.
In Chapter IV the day's work file was described. The arrangement of this file,
the headings of the folders, cards, etc., should be those of the routine plan.

How Far Ahead to Plan

While the schedules which have been shown refer in the main to one day's
activities only, it is equally certain that written instructions with time
limits may cover months and years. The question accordingly is pertinent, How
far ahead shall the business man plan his tasks?

It is evident from a study of his schedule shown on page 115, that William H.
Ingersoll believes daily, weekly, and monthly planning to be practicable.

It is well to note, however, from a study of this schedule sheet, Mr.
Ingersoll's recognition of the fact that the more remote the task the less
detailed and rigid may be its written directions and time limits. Today's
schedule may be specific in its statement of tasks and allotments of time, but
who can now be perfectly definite about a plan for next month, or next year?

"Unhappy the general," declared Napoleon, "who comes on the field of battle
with a system."

"When I have tried to plan out ahead, some duty previously unforeseen has upset
everything," observed William T. Stead, late editor of the English Review of
Reviews. "Speaking only for myself and on the strength of my own personal
experiences, I should say that I have come to believe that the best way to get
the best results out of yourself for the benefit of the world is to frame your
schemes as wisely and as carefully as you can with all the information and
counsel you can command today, but never to cling to them tomorrow if you
should be confronted by some plain, unavoidable duty which speaks to you with
the imperious authority of a divine call."

What Mr. Siead rightly insists upon here is sufficient flexibility in plans so
that first things may be put first.

Making the Plan Fit Your Needs

When it comes to putting into practice this principle of first things first,
much will depend upon the nature of the position held. As a rule, the executive
owing to the way he functions within the organization must to a certain extent
always hold himself in readiness, perhaps to initiate a policy required by
certain changed conditions or to sweep down upon some spot where a tangle has
developed.

"I handle things as they come," says W. A. Field of the Illinois Steel Company;
"I am simply one cog in a big machine. If I am the cog that should finish a
particular piece of work, I finish it at once. If I am expected simply to give
it a turn and pass it on to some one else, perhaps higher up, I do that just as
promptly."

In positions which involve unexpected and emergency duties in large proportion,
the day's plan must be kept flexible. The hard and fast time-table sort, with
its numerous and narrow time limits, would be apt to hinder more than help. In
order to work best here perhaps the plan ought to be shorn of its time limits
entirely and become merely an order of business. (See Figure 16.)

The Matter of Personality

The personality of the man as well as the nature of his duties calls for
consideration when the plans are prepared.

Some men are like sturdy machines, able to attack any task at any time, but
more of us have our fluctuations in working power—moods, "off days," tired
hours, and best parts of the day. Everyone is freshest in the early morning,
but some men are slow starters, and do their best work toward the middle of the
day. The plan should take such things Into 1. Attend to mail

2. Dictate

3. Decide Thompson contract

4. Decide Van North extension

5. Take up belting contracts

6. Conferences

7. Plant inspection

8. Office routine

Q. Tomorrow's work

Figure 16. A General Manager's Daily Order of Business
A general manager draws up daily what he calls his order of
business. This is written on a small card and kept on his desk.

consideration. Those who must work for a time before getting "warmed up" may
begin on the morning mail, perhaps, and schedule no important things before ten
or immediately after luncheon. The halves of the half-day periods, moreover,
affect men differently. Some work better just after eating, others do not. The
man who tires quickly should do his creative work in his fresh hours, whenever
they may be, and use his fatigue hours for "hack work."

When to Prepare the Plan

With respect to the most feasible time for preparing the day's plan, Carroll D.
Murphy submitted a questionnaire to two hundred and fifty business men and
found that thirty-eight per cent preferred to prepare it in the morning,
usually before opening the mail. Thirty per cent chose to plan their work the
night before, so as to have clearly in mind what they must deal with the next
day. On the whole, perhaps, the best results come through getting a general
idea of tomorrow's work before quitting the office but leaving all definite
plans to be drawn up the next morning.

Wide Applicability of Planning.

The foregoing discussion of the means for securing greater effectiveness from
planning should not obscure in any way the simple main principle, that plans
are of wide applicability and will secure for a man greatly increased results.
The planner in business —sets for himself a central purpose; —analyzes this
general purpose into its various ramifications, such as methods, equipment and
materials; —prepares definite plans, with written instructions; and —devises
standard tests with which to check his progress. Under such systematic
treatment, the most troublesome day's work is handled with comparative ease.

Exercises

Is Planning Practicable?

You may be one of those men hard to convince that planning is practicable. "Of
course," you admit, "it is perhaps all right for theorists, but it will not
apply to my case." Let us see.

Not long since you carried out some special project—built a house, managed a
picnic, handled a sales convention, ordered some machinery, bought some
merchandise, or what not. Use Test Chart 6 for the purpose of investigation in
the case of this particular project.

"If only I could do that over again I" is something we hear frequently
reiterated; it is the wail of Hindsight. Its real antidote is Foresight.

Note especially those last two columns. Of the various reductions in money and
time which you now see might have been made, how much would have been made had
you taken the trouble to draw up an intelligent plan in advance? Write your
estimare in the proper place.

Look at the figures. Is planning practical?

Planning for Others

As an executive, your success is measured not by what you do but by what you
get done, which is merely another way of saying that you should plan work for
your subordinates. Shops working under scientific management do not rest
content with designing and

[table]

Test Chart 6. My Experience with

(Fill in name of project)

drafting departments, which show what is to be done; they install planning
departments, which direct how it is to be done and when it is to be done.

Fruitful opportunities to plan work face every executive every day.

Are shop conferences and salesmen's conferences in your organization mere
rambling discussions, the consensus of opinion being "We don't get anywhere"?
Do your assistants waste time after they have finished one task, awaiting your
directions as to what to do next? If you are obliged to be gone for a few days,
do things practically come to a stand-still? Planning will remedy these evils.

Planning in Daily Life

Planning will also bring order and system into the details of life.
In getting ready for a motor car trip, do you wear a path between

house and car, repeatedly peering about here and there to see that everything
is in readiness, only to discover later on that you are without the tire repair
kit, the rain curtain, and the carbide?

The next time you make a trip, draw a sheet of note paper from your pocket, jot
down a list of the things to do, check this list before you start.

When your wife asks you to make four purchases for her in the city, do you lose
dollars in valuable time in walking back and forth from store to store, finally
coming home elated with two supposedly satisfactory articles and the other two
entirely forgotten?

[table][merged small]

It would be much easier and quicker to obtain specific directions to start
with, and call upon the stores in order, checking each article as purchased.
Carrying the analysis a step farther, it may be that your wife should have
planned for all these purchases weeks ago herself.

In short, opportunities for planning are practically identical with things to
do; they face you at every turn.

Are you in earnest? Seize this very minute:
What you can do", or dream you can, begin it.

This very excellent sentiment you will put into specific terms by filling out
Test Chart 7 now; theory and practice go hand in hand. CHAPTER VIII

DOING THE DAY'S WORK

Every one of us is conscious of a satisfaction in doing his work handily and
well, in seeing the product grow under his own hands.—Frank W. Taussig, Harvard
University.

Putting the Plan Through

A genius for dispatching work, for getting through it in the shortest time
possible, is essential in any great executive. It does not suffice that he
plan; he must also carry out his plans. The plan stands behind the power of
dispatch as its indispensable foundation, but from the pyramid builders of
Egypt to the corporation officials of today, the doers of the world's work are
measured by the amount accomplished; results constitute their real test.

The executive, his plans matured, must put them through. Concentration,
decision, dispatch! These are the watchwords of modern business.

Marvelous System of Dispatching

The highest order of dispatching has been attained by the railroads, whose
methods are thus described by Harrington Emerson:

In railroad operation marvelous dispatching has been attained, more accurate
than the seasons, more reliable than the tides, almost equal to the star time
on which it is based. Lines of track nearly a thousand miles long stretch
between New York and Chicago. Every switch, every grade, every curve, is known;
the line is studded with signal towers and punctuated with stations.

In the round house is a locomotive with a boiler capable of carrying 225-pounds
steam pressure, which through the cylinders and pistons pushes on the wheels
with rims polished like glass. The rims transmit 400 horse power through a
quarter-inch square of contact with a glass-smooth rail. With one load of coal,
drinking from tanks as it runs, the locomotive is able to speed 140 miles at
the rate of 60 miles an hour. The seventy-two to eighty-four wheel axles under
the train must each run true in its box, everything in track and equipment, in
men; and above all in spirit, must be in perfect order all the time.

On the basis of these conditions a schedule is made out, a schedule of running
time, with due allowance for grades and curves and stations, an 18-hour
schedule from New York to Chicago. The train is then dispatched.

The dispatchers issue orders to the conductor and to the block-signal men, thus
controlling the train from both ends. While under the orders of the conductor,
while physically under the control of the engineer, it is the dispatcher who
from start to finish holds it in the hollow of his hand.

The task here is one of accomplishment, carrying out the official plan, getting
the train through on schedule whatever happens, every day in the year. It is
not enough that schedule and arrangements have been made out with minutest
care; the dispatchers must see that the thousands of pieces of their huge
machine function exactly every day—cars, engines, and track, and men.

Human Traits of the Long Ago

Nevertheless, the dispatching efficiency even of railroads, according to Mr.
Emerson's estimate, is not over forty per cent and most organizations in this
respect fall far short of the railroads. The prompt and accurate co-operation
which an organization seeks from the members of its staff is not always
forthcoming. The average executive fails oftener than he likes to think of to
get his own daily program through on schedule time—especially if he makes the
needed stops for "passengers." Why is this?

A traveler in Australia once engaged three natives to

serve as guides into the interior, the time set for departure being early the
following morning. Not a native appeared at the appointed time, nor during the
entire day. The traveler, unable to account for this, began to suspect foul
play, especially when the second day wore along to noon with no sight of a
native. About three o'clock, however, the Bushmen appeared, friendly as ever
and ready to begin the journey. The amusing fact was that they failed entirely
to comprehend the traveler's displeasure at their previous non-appearance.
"Why," they said, "this is only the second day!"

Inefficiency Still With Us

Irresponsible ways, neglect of the necessary steps in carrying through the
things we mean to do, are deep rooted in us all. In the long ages during which
the ground patterns of human interests were fixed our ancestors led the simple
life with responsibilities scarcely more exacting than the animals they hunted.
Today a man is chosen and retained in an executive position largely because his
associates—above, around, and below—have confidence in his power of carrying 
responsibilities, of getting his train through. But he himself knows only too
well how exacting is this test.

Opponents the Systematic Worker Must Overcome

When the business man seats himself at the desk with today's plan facing him
and the hour has come for concentration, decision, and dispatch, his progress
is persistently threatened by hindrances—the seven devils of obstruction we
might call them:

Procrastination
The big dreamy idea
Things forgotten
Yesterday's loose ends

Dilatory co-operatiofi

Interruptions by associates and callers

Round about methods

Beset by these insidious foes, the expectations of the morning dwindle
gradually as the day wears on until the realization becomes painfully clear
that he is again falling far short of his maximum. How best clear the way of
these seven devils of obstruction so that a man may dispatch his tasks with
zest?

The Procrastinator

"Getting things done," says George Matthew Adam, "is a matter of first getting
things started."

The procrastinator—and there are traces of him in nearly every one of us—is
loath to start. He surveys his problem, touches it timidly here and there, then
leaning back in his office chair gazes absently out of the window and soon is
lost in antibusiness reveries. Upon returning from these mind wanderings, he
continually salves his conscience with such enervating excuses as: "I don't
feel very good this morning," "I'm not paid to do this," or "I couldn't more
than get started until someone would interrupt me anyway."

After a time the procrastinator may get started, but in a half-hearted way.
With everything going smoothly, he may dispatch a fair day's work, but the
first hard decision, the first tangle, is his mental Waterloo. With neither
definite goal nor strong motive force, he spends the hours in partially solving
many problems, at the end postponing their full accomplishment till tomorrow.
Tomorrow he repeats the dilatory tactics of today.

The man in an executive position who procrastinates habitually will not advance
far, nor in companies of any size and progressiveness will he last long. If a
subordinate he will be dropped; if himself in charge, the business will go to
pieces under him. But trouble comes with the occasional procrastinator, the man
who has an off-day now and then. Neither he nor anyone else can figure his time
loss.

The difficulty here results from failure to use will-power. It requires motive
force, resolution, decision of character, to begin a task promptly and push it
right through to completion. Such power of will can be developed for every one
of us, and it can be supported also by right habits of work, as will be seen in
later chapters.

The Big Dreamy Idea

The big dreamy idea is perhaps the most productive of all the obstructors. It
holds the attention rapt with its vision of things to be, at the same time
deftly substituting wishbone for backbone. Its victims we meet in the market
place.

We all know the day-dreamer in the market place. Inventors exhibit momentous
discoveries, contrivances which will extract gold from sea water or produce
gasoline at one cent a gallon or prevent forever railroad wrecks. Experts
glowingly unfold schemes for binding capital and labor together as one, or of
speculating on the "sure thing" basis, or of living in some Eden bower without
toil and without price. Yet the possessors of such gorgeous plans are
themselves commonly of seedy appearance, wearers of threadbare coats,
patronizers of the lunch counter, and not averse to borrowing a "five."

It may seem a far cry from such seedy persons to any man actually managing his
own business, or in a responsible position with any large concern. But the
distance is often less than we think.

Especially in a great organization where motion has to be passed along through
many steps, where it takes time to get a thing done—even to get it rightly
planned—the bureau heads, that is, the executives concerned, often fail to "get
down to brass tacKs." When a large part of a project must be carried through by
others to whom a certain leeway must be left, it is harder for the executive to
visualize the task than when he has to carry it through with his own hands. For
example, a member of Congress will make an inquiry of a government department
which involves weeks of work by the clerks. In a big organization with big
resources and elaborate methods, almost always a certain large, extravagant,
indefinite way of looking at facts is bred in certain of the executive
officials. The vision which flits into the mind may be priceless; yet its
pricelessness is due to its realization, not to its conception. Every idea, or
scheme, however far-reaching, must precipitate itself in some definite tangible
action. Otherwise it has no place in the day's schedule. The business train is
not to be stopped in order that the executives may gaze dreamily at the
scenery.

An Always Available Stock of Raw Materials

He who would concentrate, decide, and dispatch must have the raw materials with
which to work. Things forgotten indicate that certain raw materials are
lacking, and like an engine minus connecting rod the mental processes are
halted.

As an example of poor dispatching the forgetful man takes high rank. He wastes
time and effort in wondering what to do next, still more time in trying to
recall the raw materials necessary, and to the end he fears to decide because
the evidence flitting elusively here and there within the mind renders decision
uncertain and unsafe. What would happen to an express train run according to
such methods? What would happen to an ocean liner whose sole guidance was a
captain thus tossed about by a treacherous memory?

Neither railroad company nor steamship line accept such risks, nor should the
man at the desk.

The suggestions given in previous chapters, while they cannot be called
infallible, do nevertheless enable the executive to keep always at hand in
files and memory, stores of raw materials, and thus overcome in great measure
the obstruction of things forgotten.

Yesterday Is Dead; Be Done With It

Yesterday's loose ends, if left over for today, are timeconsumers. They drag
on: they clutter up the desk; they confuse the mind; they multiply until
clear-cut thinking is aborted and the energy which might have brought about
definite accomplishment expends itself in half-hearted attempts.

The only way to deal with yesterday's loose ends is to do things to a finish,
today.

Some practical aids for carrying out this policy of doing things to a finish
have already been discussed. The flat-top desk encourages a definite, clean-cut
dispatch of the tasks one has to do. The day's work file removes from view
masses of miscellaneous, confused material—sorts them, too, and holds them in
readiness. The hold-over file and the tickler remove the uncertainty and
vagueness from even uncompleted work; they show specifically what comes next.
The plan, with its time limits, still further focuses effort upon certain
definite accomplishments.

The Waste-Basket as an Ally

A further effective aid in having done with things now is the waste-basket. Its
yawning cavern may call forth execrations from advertisers and letter writers
in quest of orders, but it stands for wholesome thinking. The man who, on the
vague supposition that "some day I might want to do something with these
things," hides away papers here and there until his desk is a junk heap, gets
choked up mentally. His practice encourages the habit of indecision. If,
instead, each

paper or item as it appears at the desk is judged according to its actual
value, the mind as well as the desk receives a good house cleaning. Use the
waste-basket more!

With these mechanical aids as allies, attack the work at the desk. Proceed
calmly, systematically, forcefully. Carry every piece of business through to a
definite conclusion.

Dilatory Co-operation

The business man works not as an individual merely, but as a cog in his
industrial machine. His personal efforts are dependent upon what others do, and
these others are often dilatory co-operators. Practically everyone, especially
after he has undergone a series of committee meetings or conferences,
appreciates the jest that "co-operation is the thief of time!"

The chief remedy for dilatory co-operation is care in planning.

The average business man escapes if he can the task of systematically planning
a job, and passes his ill-assorted directions along to others, who as a rule
are similarly delinquent. Thereby he initiates a series of difficulties, which
in spite of heroic efforts here and there, are almost certain to delay the
final results. Consider the printer as a typical victim. What tales he can
unfold of rush orders, of missing parts of the copy, of last-minute changes, of
telegrams to the engraver, and messenger boys to the foundry, of threats and
pleadings for what would have been delivered days since had it only been
planned properly!

Getting things done through co-operation necessarily requires time. But this
time can be materially shortened if the initiator of the task plans for its
accomplishment all the way through, takes into account the individuality and
special conditions of the other persons concerned, assigns its various parts in
due season, makes tickler records of the dates when results are due, and
notifies promptly any delinquent. If system is worth while to the individual in
general, it even more truly serves the man who works with others.

Interruptions—By House Men

The executive, industrious though he may be in pushing his own tasks, may see
his program hopelessly delayed unless he can defend his time from unwarranted
interruptions.

Some of the interruptions come from within the organization, from his
associates, subordinates, and superiors. It is pretty well recognized in the
factory that continuous operation is necessary for maximum output, hence
shut-downs are guarded against. It is by no means, however, so generally
recognized in the executive office that steady work means larger mental output
and that interruption here is quite as serious as shut-downs in the machine
shop. As a result, house men are constant offenders.

Much of this promiscuous visiting will be avoided if each official follows the
plan outlined in Chapter IV, of assigning pockets in the day's work file to his
various co-workers and, by placing in these pockets all items having to do with
a certain co-operator, makes one conference with him take the place of many.

A General Office Schedule

This plan if carried a step further involves the drawing up of a general office
schedule, with which the various individual schedules are correlated. An
example is here given of such a schedule as it has been worked out in a New
York office and, it may be added, used with salutary effect. (See Figure 17.)

The same idea has been applied with even greater elaborateness and entire
success by a large manufacturing company. (See Figure 18.)

Off1ce Schedule

In order to reduce the number of interruptions to a minimum, all members are
requested to adhere as strictly as possible to the following schedule:

8:45-9:30 Preparation

Reading mail, memos, interphone calls, interviews without appointment, and
other preparatory steps required.

9:30-12:30 Business

All work requiring concentration. Interviews during this time only by
appointment. No interphone calls or memos unless absolutely necessary.

12:30-2:15 Preparation

Luncheon and informal conferences, memos, interphone calls, interviews without
appointment.

2:15-4:00 Business

Same as from 9:30-12:30. Concentrate upon your own work and permit others to do
the same by reducing interruptions to a minimum.

4:00-5:00 Miscellaneous

Sign mail, interview without appointment, informal conferences, planning work
for tomorrow, and the like.

Outside callers, in so far as this is practicable, should be handled according
to the above schedule.

No member is expected to break these rules without valid excuse, which is to be
given at time of interruption to the person disturbed.

Figure 17. Office Schedule

In order to secure more effective co-operation among the members of its office
force, a New York concern devised this office schedule.

In adopting such a schedule, particularly in deciding upon the classes of work
and their respective hours, full consideration must be given to the office
involved. In general, minute subdivision and close scheduling should be
avoided.

While it doubtless may be that a schedule common to all its desk-workers cannot
be introduced with profit into every office, the idea behind the schedule is
neither its classifications nor time limits nor printed form, but an attempt to
attain more orderly procedure. This idea, once it is grasped, may possibly be
sufficient in itself to reduce house interruptions to a permissible quantity.
Co-workers taught that concentration is the ideal and interruption a sin to be
avoided, will become apologetic and brief when they do interrupt.

The Problem of Handling Callers

The interruptions of members of the force are commonly less troublesome to the
executive than his outside callers. No business man can absolutely refuse to
receive callers; still, their visits have only a certain value to him and the
problem is how to secure this value within the proper time limits. The problem
is as serious for the man in charge of a department as for the president of the
company, more serious indeed, in a great many cases, because he has fewer
defenses.

The policy of keeping the door always open and then getting rid of unwelcome
callers by sheer brusqueness may have served very well heretofore, but has been
discarded today. Under the growth of organized enterprise, the time of the
executive, whether president or bureau head, has become too valuable for
promiscuous visitors; at the same time the increased appreciation of the value
of business courtesy prohibits the use of brusqueness or incivility as a
defense.

Callers must be admitted with discrimination and their stay terminated with
courtesy.

[graphic][table][ocr errors][ocr errors][merged small][ocr errors][ocr errors]
[graphic][ocr errors][ocr errors]

The Selection of Callers

In the selection of callers, sometimes it is a diplomatic young man bearing
some impressive title such as "Assistant to the President," or "Executive
Assistant," who learns the nature of the visitor's errand and proceeds to make
the necessary adjustments. Sometimes the private secretary or the switchboard
operator performs these same functions. Sometimes the office boy meets the
caller with a card and the polite request that he will write his name and a
message. The card is then duly passed upon behind the scenes.

The executive by some such methods as these closes the door against unimportant
callers. Yet there are shrewd pickers of locks on the outside.

The Growing Aggressiveness of Callers

In books on salesmanship these lock-pickers have their courage whetted by such
statements as, "There are a few men —a very few—who are mighty hard to see. A
salesman must try everlastingly to find a way to get in instead of sitting back
and proving to himself that it is impossible. When he has finally decided that
it cannot be done, he will be obliged to watch some fellow in the same line
come along, get in, and make the sale. It should be remembered, always, that
there are some men who are getting in; there are some men from whom the
prospect is buying. Be one of them."

In sales magazines and at every gathering of salesmen, stories on "How I got by
those secretaries," are related with pride.

"A clerk at the information desk," so runs one of these stories, "asked me,
'Whom do you wish to see?'

'"I don't wish anything—I came to see Mr. Jennings.' I replied. 'Tell him I
have arrived—the name is McClure.'

"The girl, impelled by the assurance I put into my com

[ocr errors][table]

mand, hesitated, then telephoned to Mr. Jennings that 'Mr. McClure had
arrived.' Mr. Jennings came out."

The particular "obstacles between you and your prospect" are analyzed by alert
sales managers, remedies appropriate for each are devised, and the whole scheme
charted for the edification of their men. (See Figure 19.)

The view current today that all men are salesmen, engaged in the marketing
either of commodities or their own services, in itself exalts aggressiveness
and shrewdness in reaching the person with whom an interview is sought.

How Shall the Executive Protect His Time?

What does all this mean to the man in the office, who has his tasks to get
through on schedule time? Simply that the forces of attack are growing
stronger; to protect himself, he must necessarily strengthen his forces of
defense.

Judge Gary, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the United States Steel
Corporation, meets callers by appointment, a plan which he adheres to rather
strictly. It is said that an executive from a prominent Chicago manufacturing
house, armed with a letter of introduction from the President of the American
Bridge Company, one day walked unannounced into Judge Gary's anteroom. He had
made a special trip to New York to see the Chairman. After a three days' wait
he returned to Chicago with his errand unfulfilled. A few weeks later he
returned, this time by appointment, interviewed Judge Gary without delay, and
closed an important deal.

"Judge Gary's time is sometimes filled for a few weeks ahead," explained his
private secretary. "However important the unexpected visitor, the Chairman
cannot always drop his work or break engagements to see him. Unless the visitor
can transact his business with other officers of the company, he must make his
appointment through me and wait until Judge Gary can see him."

The president of a Chicago wholesale house, working upon the principle that it
is easier to keep callers out than to get them to go on time, admits no caller
directly to his private office. Instead the president leaves his office,
usually with some papers in his hand, and greets the caller who remains outside
the "dead line" railing. Should a short private discussion appear desirable,
the president invites the caller inside the railing with some such remark as:
"Come inside a minute or two." This time limit acts as a warning suggestion,
which is reinforced by the handful of papers and, if necessary, by the
president's statement that he must get back to his desk. "Once he lands in a
chair, it's practically impossible to get a man out without dynamiting him
until he has told the whole story," says this executive in explaining his
procedure.

Shortening the Caller's Stay

Trouble may also be forestalled by granting the caller a definite amount of
time in advance. "I have a meeting this morning at ten," a traction executive
told his visitor, "which gives me fifteen minutes now. I will be back at
half-past one and will then have a half-hour before two o'clock, when I have
another engagement. If fifteen minutes will do, I wish you would come in now;
if it will take longer, suppose you come around this afternoon."

Such a simple and straightforward statement gives no offense, but it usually
does condense into a few minutes what otherwise might be a prolonged interview.

Once the caller has been admitted, the time should be spent profitably. The
caller, it is presumed by the fact of his admittance, has a mission which the
executive considers worth his while and upon this mission accordingly both men
should focus their attention; irrelevancies are time wasters to be avoided. "If
you want to get the most from .the other fellow," says a newspaper executive,
"never talk about yourself nor permit him to talk about you."

In practice this policy may require a certain amount of planning for each
interview; otherwise time is liable to be consumed on non-essentials while some
main point possibly will be overlooked entirely.

"I keep at hand," says a real estate executive, "a list of things to be taken
up personally with different people who come into the office. When an habitual
caller is announced, it takes but the time that he is walking from the outside
office to my door to glance at his record card and prime myself for the
interview. When he comes in I know exactly what I want to talk over with him
and I shape the interview accordingly.

"I never let a man saunter in and talk at random by way of preamble. I get my
business through with him first, close it off, and have that much done, then I
ask him what he wants of me and am able to get through with the rest of his
call in record time."

Closing the Interview

The interview, even though kept in fruitful channels, after a time reaches the
point when its prolongation would mean waste. How terminate it?

Various expedients will be mentioned. As to their use it may be said in
general: (i) choose whichever expedient seems best suited to your own
personality and that of your caller; and (2) commence with delicate hints and
gradually work toward the more extreme measures, meanwhile balancing against
the risks involved by the caller's possible resentment, your own certain loss
in personal efficiency.

A hint which suffices for some callers is a remark such as "I'm glad to have
had this opportunity to talk with you,"

or "It's a pleasure to have met you. Come in again some time."

Rising as a sign the interview is terminated, looking at the clock, or drawing
out upon the desk in plain sight a formidable pile of work, are somewhat
stronger hints that it is time to go.

According to a certain charming method which, however, requires a high degree
of diplomacy on the part of its user, the host rises, reaches out to shake
hands, and then while cordially retaining the caller's handclasp gently leads
him to the door with a few final words on the subject of the call and a
pleasant farewell. The visitor finds himself outside though scarcely conscious
of how he got there, and the door is closed.

Since they recognize that any caller once comfortably seated in a quiet private
office is liable to overstay, some executives contrive to give a visitor as he
enters the subconscious feeling that he is just about to depart. It may be that
no chairs are provided. The executive sits, the visitor stands, unless he is
one to whom this would be a distinct discourtesy, in which case both men stand.
Or again, the office door is left wide open and the caller is seated where he
cannot avoid seeing that others are waiting outside. Should this not have the
desired effect, the secretary is signaled to usher in one of those waiting and
the newcomer, on being shown a seat, is informed he will receive attention in a
minute or two.

The Distress Signal

Another general means for terminating the interview may be called distress
signals, to which executives in especially exposed positions sometimes have
recourse. The most common of these is the electric buzzer, concealed somewhere
on the desk or floor where it may be pressed unobtrusively. As soon as the
emergency signal has sounded outside, an assistant or secretary appears who
apologizes for the interruption, but is obliged to bring up such and such a
matter for immediate action, and he stands waiting as the caller makes his
exit. Sometimes the assistant on receiving the signal calls up on the phone,
representing himself as a house man desiring to settle an important matter and
forcing from the executive a promise to confer with him inside of five minutes;
the visitor, overhearing the conversation, takes hurried leave.

The story is told of a prominent exporter who, wishing to terminate an
interview, in the most charmingly informal manner lights a cigar, strolls over
to a window, spreads his legs apart, and with hands folded behind his back
seemingly prepares to continue the conversation at his ease. But to the
secretary sitting just outside the glass door, this naive attitude of his
employer constitutes a distress signal. He sweeps in with a huge handful of
"important papers which must be attended to at once in order to catch a foreign
mail." The caller thereupon is ushered out with expressions of regret.

Who Else Is Waiting?

In deciding whether or not to close the interview, the executive discovers
oftentimes that much depends upon what callers, if any, are waiting outside to
see him. In some cases the secretary is left in control of this matter, it
being his function to signaj the employer by buzzer when an important caller
has arrived. The chief may or may not communicate with him further before
taking leave of his present caller, much depending upon the secretary's
proficiency.

For handling cases such as these the telautograph is useful. Should a caller be
staying rather long, the executive by taking up his electric pencil inquires as
to who is waiting outside. The secretary, by using a similar pencil, replies
that Mr. Blank is there; upon the receipt of the information the executive can
arrange his time accordingly.

After all is said, however, the reception of callers is one of the important
duties of practically every man who has executive work. His purpose is to
accomplish as much as possible during the time which his program permits.

President Roosevelt and His Callers

The classic example of successful management of callers is the account by
George Fitch, in The American Magazine, of President Roosevelt in the White
House. The writer of the account had called upon the President accompanied by
his Congressman.

As we finished our inspection, which included a view of the President's desk in
his private office, the President came out and began working his way rapidly
through the callers, taking one group at a time, and using both hands and voice
incessantly. ... As he worked each group he sorted out the visitors ar>d
classified them. Some he merely greeted cordially. Others he asked to stand
aside a minute for further remarks. Still others were asked to step into his
office and wait for him. Then, after having rough-finished half a dozen groups,
the president would go back and work over the debris.

It was then that we saw him in real action. He told a story and arrived at the
point with a deep, chuckly laugh which pervaded his entire system and was
reflected from every tooth—a regular mouthful of glee. He frowned tremendously
and a pent-up epigram exploded with a loud bang; he suddenly reached forward
and bit the atmosphere in two while emphasizing a word. He reached a woman
caller and his entire personality dissolved and changed like a river mist.
Bowing low as he shook hands, he greeted her with an oldfashioned courtesy and
a soft-voiced deference to womankind that was most attractive. Passing on, he
heard a proposition and dismissed it with two "noes" that would have cut a
ship's cable in two—all in good humor and friendliness. Then, remembering a
group which he had sent into his office to be digested, he hurried in to them
and considered their case. . . .

The Congressman in seeking a better opportunity for his visitor to talk with
the President blurted out, "Mr. President, I am on the sub-committee on
fortifications." Mr.

Roosevelt immediately drew the little group into a corner,
where he at once plunged into affairs of state. He took the
lid right off of the international pot and let us look in. . . .
As I remember it now, we had really looked on open-mouthed
for fifteen minutes—a fear comes over me that it was really
only two—and that at the end of that time the President,
having said what was uppermost in his mind, had terminated
the interview. That is the funny thing about it. We came
away feeling as if we had terminated the interview. They
say everybody does—that no one stays a minute longer than
the President wants him to and yet no one knows how the
President does it. At a certain moment the visitor clutches
his hat convulsively and the President, overcoming his dis-
appointment, manfully bids him goodbye.

But what makes the visitor clutch his hat? The explanation is simple. Roosevelt
himself dominated the interview.

Dominating the Interview

The spineless caller who hangs on rather than make the effort required to break
away, must have his mind made up for him. The persistent stayer who remains to
urge again and again a project against which his host has already decided, must
have his views definitely reshaped. Positiveness of manner accomplishes this.
If the executive impresses his callers as a man of infinite leisure, most of
them will stay too long. If he does not get quickly to the point, many of them,
if they do business, will have to stay too long. The best method of saving time
in an interview is for the executive himself to serve as an example of what
both men should do, viz., concentrate, decide, dispatch.

Exercises

Wasting Time

Several salesmen met in Boston some time since for a little gettogether. One of
them, the manager of a New England territory, took the floor. His remarks are
thus reported by an unofficial secretary:

"He first pointed out that life consists of fads. He had one at the moment and
it consisted of a constant analysis of the way he occupies his time.

"He approached his topic by showing us how he had analyzed his expenditures
over a period of two years; and the revelations that this analysis had exposed.
For about two months he had carefully analyzed his time in much the same way
and the revelations were indeed startling.

"Time, he pointed out, is our most valuable asset. Not alone in dollars and
cents but in that far more valuable commodity—mental growth.

"He had divided his time into two parts—productive and unproductive. And these
again he subdivided into logical divisions.

"He quoted from memory and here is the result—

1. Productive

(a) Constructive business-getting time

(b) Avocation—(not mere diversion)

(c) Reading

(1) Solid
(2) Light

(d) Exercise

etc., etc.

2. Unproductive

(a) Meals

(b) Bed

(c) Chores

(d) Diversion

(e) Idleness

etc., etc.

"As a result he had discovered several important facts:

"1. That he had been deceiving himself about the amount of work,
business-getting work, that he had been doing.

"2. That four hours each day were absolutely unaccounted for— wasted in pure
idleness.

"3. That the daily round showed lack of steadiness.

"As a matter of fact the real worth and object of such an analysis is to
cultivate steadiness; the steadiness of the six-cylinder which keeps on
chug-chugging all the time and not in spurts.

"Bert had discovered that his days were irregular in the extreme. One day so
much work done; next day not nearly so much; one day so much time given to
meals; next day far too much.

"His analysis showed him the necessity of proper allocation of time for work,
meals, sleep, exercise, etc., each day."

This salesman-manager has an income running well into five figures, so he
cannot very well be accused of being a mere theorist. He emphasized an idea
well worth while; time is a most valuable asset and everyone should make an
analysis to see how his is being spent.

For two or three days keep accurate record in minutes of all time spent from 9
A.m. to 5 P.m., or whatever your regular hours are. Do not postpone this
recording until the close of the day, but jot down the minutes as you go along,
five for mind wandering, ten for worrying, etc. Be honest with yourself in
this, too; the question is not at all whether you like the showing made but
solely what are the facts? The time spent on some of these things is not
entirely wasted, as, for instance, during a ten-minute gossip something may be
said which in the way it fits into the day's work may be worth two minutes;
this two minutes accordingly would be placed in a second column as a credit.

Your percentage of efficiency, however low it may be, undoubtedly shows higher
in this computation than your working methods actually justify. The reason is
that even with the most careful recording a great many minutes will not be
accounted for, probably wasted, whereas in the above records all time not
accounted for is credited as being properly spent.

Are you satisfied with this percentage of efficiency? Or do you find, as did
this sales manager, that you have been deceiving yourself about the amount of
time devoted to productive work?

Your Own Record

Do I or do I not dispatch my work on schedule time?

Within the big organization where your working days are spent, you already have
a reputation for promptness in meeting your obligations or you are known as a
person whose laxness in dispatching continually delays the business game.
Because so many men are addicted to this latter practice and yet wish to escape
the consequences, poor dispatching naturally associates itself with countless
attempts to "pass the buck."

We shall employ Test Chart 8 as a check upon ourselves. The twelve pieces of
work selected ought not to be trivial matters but tasks for which a fair amount
of preparation is required. The first two causes of delay specified in the form
have been discussed in the present chapter; the five factors in planning are
object, methods, equipment, materials, and schedules; and the seven devils are
procrastination, the day-dream, things forgotten, yesterday's loose ends,
dilatory co-operation, interruptions by associates, and round-about methods. A
delay may be due, of course, to more than one cause. Use check marks for the
replies when this is possible.

When Test Chart 8 has been completed, survey the result. Frankly, what is your
opinion of yourself as a dispatcher?

[table][merged small]

Improvement

Some improvement doubtless is in order. Follow the specific plans you have
outlined for yourself according to Chapter V, and during the next month, two
months, or whatever definite time you set for yourself, seek in every possible
task to eliminate wastes in time. Use your specific plans in cutting directly
to the goal, make every moment and every motion result getting.

At the end of the period set, once more use Test Chart 8 to enter your record
of accomplishment for two days or so. How goes ypur improvement?

CHAPTER IX

SHORT-CUTS

A straight line is the shortest distance between two points.

-Euclid.

Amateur Versus Expert

The man intent upon dispatching his day's work upon schedule time, but
apparently unable to do so will discover possibly that like a Bostonian upon
the winding streets of his city, he has been proceeding most indirectly to the
goal. The solution here is a short-cut.

The insistence upon short-cuts is not a foible of the scientific manager, but
is based upon the very nature of things. Tyrus Cobb at the plate is much less
given to motions than is the usual amateur batsman, but he has his eye on the
ball and he "connects" with it. Tris Speaker in the outfield chases back and
forth considerably less than the bush leaguer, but when he does move it is in
the right direction. Rose Fritz, the world's champion typist, in her speed
contests is apt to deceive the onlooker, for even as a record is being broken
her fingers glide easily over the keys.

The amateur, in general, attains his end by roundabout methods; the expert uses
short-cuts.

A Lesson from Animal Psychology

The psychology upon which the principle of short-cuts is based is illustrated
in a very interesting way by a series of experiments Professor Thorndike
performed with a cat. The animal was placed inside a closed box, which was
constructed of slats and could be opened by means of a wire loop which hung
from the ceiling.

When first put into the box the cat commenced to struggle vigorously, tried to
squeeze between the slats, clawed and bit at the bars, and even thrust its paws
through the openings and clawed at whatever it could reach outside. In the
course of its clawing and biting, it by and by attacked the suspended loop,
whereupon the door opened and it was free. In succeeding attempts, improvement
was shown; the animal which in its first attempt to escape consumed 160
seconds, in its twelfth attempt consumed only 20, and in its twenty-fourth
consumed but 7. The various non-successful motions were eliminated; the
necessary motions were used at once.

Short-Cuts Represent Perfected Methods

What we have here, if the time periods required are plotted graphically, is a
curve of learning. First attempts are found to be crude, wasteful, time
consuming; succeeding attempts bring about continuous improvement until the
minimum of time and effort is expended, which means that normally crude and
wasteful methods are replaced by short-cuts. The principle involved is true
even for the executive in his private office.

The man who would be expert, no matter what his position, must adopt
short-cuts.

The following short-cuts are illustrative of a line of thought which may
profitably be carried much further.

Conservation of Time

The buyer for a machinery jobbing house, who meets many callers, fitted out his
office with two work places. "If I am talking to one man when another arrives,"
he explained, "I ask the second to go to the vacant desk and prepare whatever
he may have to show.

"If the salesman I am talking with is inclined to overstay his welcome, I
explain that I feel I should not keep the other man waiting. In this way I can
excuse myself gracefully, leaving the first caller to put away his samples or
photographs while I go to the other.

"Similarly, when I am through with the next man, I return to the desk, while
the second caller puts his paraphernalia away. You may not imagine that this
saves me much time in the course of a day, but it does."

Fill in the vacant periods: hoard the minutes.

A trade paper, a book, some reports, routine correspondence, an unexpected
caller, a short period of calisthenics, these are some of the many items which
may be sandwiched into the vacant period. Keep 9:00 A.m. to 5:00 P.m. sacred
for work, its minutes packed with accomplishment.

Business Time for Business

Keep free from personal visitors and personal matters during the business day.
The firm in paying your salary has first claim to your time and energies.

Some Things Not To Do

Do not sharpen pencils, fill fountain pens, nor run errands. Your time is
high-priced, and the firm loses whenever a highsalaried man performs low-priced
tasks.

Supervising from the Office

Office partitions of clear glass enable a manager to work at his desk and
supervise at the same time. These partitions afford him good light, air, warmth
and comfort, and keep him in sight of his men.

Words versus Check Marks

Checking is quicker than writing, and for many purposes is entirely adequate.
(See Figure 20.) In drawing up record blanks, routing sheets, reference forms,
and the like,

provide for checking instead of writing whenever a check mark will serve.

Office Of The General Manager
Date, December 20, 1918

Referred to

Mr. Alcorn Mr. Murrell ...

Andler "Pearson ..

"Berwin "Peters ....

Bickerstoff "Peterson ..

"Burger "Roswell ...

"Diamond

Eldridge

"Ewell

"Frome

"Harris

"Hylan

"Mallory

"Martin

"Monroe

For attention

"approval

"comment

"report

"reading

"reply direct...

"return to G. M.

"file

Figure 20. Checking System

When a busy executive has a number of papers to pass along, the addressing of
them for the inter-organization delivery and the noting upon each the
directions required becomes a considerable task. The use of such a blank as
here shown simplifies the process materially.

Use of Both Hands

Use both hands whenever the work can thereby be expedited. Just because a man
happens to be right-handed is no reason for the left hand to serve only as a
paper weight.

Head versus Heels

In a wholesale grocery house which was suffering from rapid growth, each
individual order was turned over to a clerk who checked off the items of that
order consecutively as he filled them. This plan required many clerks and the
stockroom was a scene of incessant activity with much rushing back and forth.
The clerks were paid a very low wage ($8 per week), but the cost of filling
orders was high; still they "had always done it that way." Finally the
congestion and delay became too great and as the next move, each clerk was
given six orders to fill simultaneously as he went from place to place. This
and the installation of a general trucking system, caused a decided
improvement. Following this, the stockroom was departmentalized, the required
number of order fillers stationed in each section, and the items of the order
itself were distributed from the office to the departments and assembled in the
shipping room. Wages were advanced twenty-five per cent, but the cost of
filling orders was reduced fifteen per cent, because the clerks spent less time
in walking and more time in taking goods from the shelves.

Dispatch several items on one trip.

Starting and Stopping

The office manual and the office clock call for every minute of the business
man's time—with an interval for lunch—from 9 in the morning till 5 in the
evening. During these hours he should be pushing the business incessantly. But
the average man is a trimmer. He starts tardily and quits over-early. It is
true that the foes of system—the seven little devils perched upon the desk all
day long—are especially insistent at these times; nevertheless, they can and
should be ousted.

Get under way promptly: keep under way to the close.

Day's Work Plan for the Secretary

The time spent in giving the secretary his directions can be cut down by
arranging with him a day's work plan. Such a plan will care for all regular
items and its flexibility permits the handling of specials.

Filing Short-Cuts

In filing large numbers of cards or other material, a preliminary assorting
cuts down considerably the time required.

A box fitted with press-board guides serves very well for arranging
correspondence for filing, a distributor with fanlike leaves is handy if the
classes are not numerous. An ordinary sheet of cardboard properly ruled will
handle small cards very well. Should the cards be 3 x 6-inch squares for
example, mark off a 24 x 30-inch cardboard into 4 x 6-inch .squares and letter
these in alphabetical order, the latter in each case being placed near the top
line of the square. Sort the cards out upon the proper squares, then file them
into the card index.

Use of Symbols

Multum in parvo is attained by using symbols.

E. St. Elmo Lewis by jotting a figure on the pages of a trade paper in effect
tells his secretary, "Clip this article at your convenience, place it among the
other papers in the file basket, and later on when you dispose of these see
that this one gets into the proper cabinet, behind the tab marked '21'" Figures
express his filing system in code.

Professor Hotchkiss in correcting his English themes provides his students a
full lesson on the principles of business composition though he jots only a few
figures on the page. These figures in each case refer to rules and references
which appear in printed form upon the margin, and hence can readily be
consulted.

Standarize, then express the standard by a symbol.

Preparation for Dictation

When about to take up a batch of letters for disposal, many men without first
ascertaining that they are ready to dictate, press the buzzer for a
stenographer. It is only after the young lady appears, ready for her part of
the task, that they discover that some necessary folder has not yet been
secured from the file, that certain estimates are still to be decided upon, or
perhaps that a required conference remains to be held. In short, they are not
ready to dictate and they discover this fact too late.

Always be ready to dictate when the stenographer is called.

It is true that her time is less expensive than an official's, yet even less
expensive time should not be wasted. Moreover, some of the worst offenders in
this respect are usually men whose salaries are little beyond that of a
first-class stenographer.

Speed in Dictating

Dictate rapidly. The attempt itself stimulates thought, and is conducive to
that quick, vigorous diction before which correspondence melts away.

Elimination of Wasteful Details

In answering a number of letters do not dictate the full name and address of
each correspondent. This is time-consuming because the stenographer must write
much of it in long hand, and quite needless since such details can readily be
copied from the letter replied to, if this is turned over to her. As you reply
to letter after letter, number each in order and dictate merely this number.

Dispatch in Handling Correspondence

Men commonly read their mail twice, once to get a general idea of its import
and urgency, and the second time to give it detailed consideration. Condense
most of this into the first reading. Dispatch the easy ones with finality;
assort the remainder into the day's work file, at the same time underscoring
significant words or phrases. In dictating later on you will be saved time
which would otherwise be spent upon irrelevant details.

Color Schemes

A color scheme in the office can at times be made to serve a most useful
purpose. One general manager, for example, assigns each department a color—red
for the purchasing, blue for the accounting, green for the production, etc.—and
the departmental color identifies all the forms and memoranda which are issued.
Another employs colors to indicate different degrees of urgency. Papers in red
must receive immediate attention, those in blue are to be disposed of today,
and the white in the regular routine. The scheme is really nothing more than a
color code, the various colors as symbols, representing whatever information
has been previously decided upon.

Carbon Copies

Copying, which the use of carbon might have obviated, is unbusinesslike. It has
become almost second nature for typists in transcribing dictation to make one
or more copies at the same time, but this is only one of the many uses to which
carbon sheets can be put. In most offices there are many other chances for
saving by means of carbon copies, which as yet are overlooked.

Machines for Dictation

The dictating machine possesses certain advantages.

It is always ready; whether one gets down to the office an hour ahead of his
stenographic force or prefers to dictate after office hours or at home in the
evenings, he need only start the machine and talk.

The machine has no speed limit. The man who dictates like a "whirlwind" finds
no brakes set upon his pace; the man who makes long stops in order to think out
a hard letter or to hunt some necessary data, may do so without wasting anyone
else's time.

The accuracy of the typed matter is commonly increased. There is many a slip
between what the dictator says and the stenographer types—slight inaccuracies
no doubt, but frequently embarrassing. The wax cylinder records faithfully what
is entrusted to it and the typist, by using the back spacer, may have this
repeated any number of times.

The machine also frees the typist from interruptions. When busy with filing,
typing, or other duties, she is not obliged to drop them upon signal that her
employer has thought of a letter or memorandum he wants to get off his mind.

Considerable criticism has been directed toward these machines, both by typists
and dictators. The real source of these criticisms probably lies in faulty
dictation. The man who speaks directly into the mouthpiece and enunciates his
words clearly, turns out cylinders which a typist has no difficulty in
transcribing.

The Automatic Correspondent

Those who handle a large volume of correspondence, particularly when the
subject matter is limited, find themselves day after day going over pretty much
the same ground. Orders, complaints, collections, sales talk—each of these
topics constitutes a class within which exists a certain sameness and the
letters to a hundred men in this class are often practically identical. When
the tongue slips into well-worn combinations of words and the task of dictation
becomes monotonous, it is a signal that short-cuts are overdue.

Many practical schemes are available to solve this problem. These are
occasionally subjected to criticism by those who claim the letters produced are
inferior. But what constitutes a good letter? Is it not, after all, one that
produces the desired effect? Does it give the inquirer the information he
wants? Does it convince the prospect he needs the product? Does it get the
money and yet retain the customer's good-will? Should a form letter with a
fill-in prove able to do these things, it constitutes a good letter and hence
is worth using. As a matter of practice, the man who analyzes his
correspondence can frequently, without any loss in effectiveness, turn over a
hundred names to a typist with the single statement, "Send them letter number
4."

In an Eastern stove factory the overworked head of the correspondence
department was prevailed upon to use these form paragraphs, and the account of
his experience will suggest how they may be adapted to any business. As a
start, the typists were instructed to make an extra carbon copy of every letter
sent out during the next two weeks. The following subject outline was then
drawn up:

Sales: 1-199

Openers I- 24

Description of stoves 25- 49

Testimonials 50- 74

Price 75- 99

Service department 100-124

How to order 125-149

Miscellaneous 150-174

Closers 175-199

Orders: 200-399

Openers 200-224

Filled as ordered 225-249

Filled with changes 250-274

Cannot fill 275-299

Sending bill 300-324

Miscellaneous 325_374

Closers 375-399

Complaints: 400-599

Openers 400-424

Goods not received 425-449

Wrong goods sent 450-474

Damaged in transit 475_499 Dissatisfied with goods 500-524

Bill incorrect 525-549

Miscellaneous 550-574

Closers 575-600

The carbon copies were classified under the foregoing subject headings and then
cut up into paragraphs and sorted into piles according to the outline. These
piles were next taken up in order, all paragraphs judged of poor quality
excluded, and the remainder revised with care. The quality paragraphs, after
being numbered consecutively in each class and copied, were bound in a
loose-leaf binder and indexed. It may be well to add that in copying,
paragraphs of two separate classes were never placed on the same sheet since
this would have been confusing when it came to planning the index.

A customer from up-state, let us say, writes in a long letter of complaint
which boiled down means that he has received the wrong goods. The correspondent
consults his form paragraphs a moment, jots a few figures upon a small card,
clips this card to the customer's letter, and tosses it into the typist's tray.
His part is done.

The customer, however, receives an excellent four-paragraph letter, which
adjusts the matter to his satisfaction, and he is not at all concerned with the
manufacturer's form paragraph system.

The use of form paragraphs offers certain practical advantages:

Speed. The correspondent can dispose of his letters more rapidly; the typist
can transcribe faster.

Low Cost. The speed with which letters are produced and the fact that a typist
may be substituted for a first-class stenographer lowers the cost per page.
(See Figure 21.)

Accuracy. The slips which creep in as one dictates, and the errors made as the
stenographer transcribes from notes are both reduced.

[table]

Figure 21. Card Used to Save Time of Dictating

This small card, clipped to the letter, represents the answer as dictated by
the automatic correspondent. The typist inserts the special items specified in
the column at the right, in this way increasing the flexibility of the system.

Quality. The paragraphs are well written, interesting, convincing, far superior
to the grade of work usually turned out by the correspondent because they
represent his one best way of putting a point. The sales argument, the
acknowledgment of an order, or the reply to a complaint, once it has been
standardized and reduced to form paragraphs, becomes independent of moods. An
attack of indigestion or some hot altercation with a competitor does not
disturb the persuasiveness of the selling talk nor the smooth diplomacy of the
collection appeal when these repose in a correspondent's manual.

Freedom from Drudgery. There is no merit in chaining a high-class mind to the
drudgery of grinding out the same monotonous phrases day after day. If freed
from such routine through the use of form paragraphs, the correspondent is more
able to give special letters the hard, concentrated thought they deserve.

Flexibility. When the stock of form paragraphs has attained the degree of
completeness to which it appears feasible to extend it, the man who may have
commenced the use of this system somewhat skeptically will be agreeably
surprised at the facility with which through its use the most varied letters
can be prepared. Moreover, a single paragraph can often be made to cover a
number of cases, and in a distinctly individual way, by leaving blank a space
for the date, the name of the article, its price, size, or color, the name of
the prospect, etc. Such items are noted on the card at the time of dictating
(See Figure 21), and filled in by the typist. Form paragraphs may also be
interspersed at will with paragraphs which are dictated solely for the letter
at hand. This plan need cause no confusion whether one uses a dictating machine
or employs a stenographer.

It is true that for the executive's correspondence the form letter usually
proves inadvisable, yet the principle upon which it is based—a standardized
communication—does apply with much force. Again and again several persons or
firms are written concerning a certain subject in practically the same terms.
What is in reality a form letter can be used if, after exercising care in
dictating the first letter, the writer hands the stenographer the name and
address cards of the remaining firms with the remark, "The same letter for
these." The recipients of these letters concern themselves solely with the
product laid before them. Is it a good letter?

Form paragraphs unmodified will not, of course, serve for all letters, yet it
requires only an analysis of his correspondence to convince the average man
that the percentage of it

which can be handled, and well handled, by form paragraphs is larger than he
first suspected.

1oo Per Cent Efficiency

The foregoing suggestions illustrate in only a limited way the many short-cuts
which the man intent upon the prompt dispatch of his duties will work out for
himself. His attention once directed into the short-cut channel, he will
constantly speed up and eventually, as his "dispatch" efficiency approaches 1oo
per cent, surprise even himself by the celerity with which he moves through the
day's routine.

In this respect his problem is similar in kind to that of a city fire
department in cutting down the time elapsing between the receipt of an alarm
and the departure of the firemen. The experiments conducted by such a
department convey a telling message to business men complaining of "no time"
while indifferent to short-cuts.

"At first," says R. T. Kent, "the horses stood in their stalls with their
harness on them. The hitching of the horses required the fastening of several
buckles. Some one then invented the drop harness, now universally used, and the
number of motions in hitching a horse was reduced to three— snapping the collar
round his neck, and the fastening of the two reins to his bridle by bit snaps.

"Later the horses were moved from the rear of the house to a point alongside
the engine, so that they had only to travel a matter of a few feet to be in
position under the harness. Some one else then invented a device which released
the horses from their stalls automatically with the sounding of the alarm on
the fire-house gong, affecting a further saving in time and motion.

'Instead of having the firemen descend stairs from their sleeping quarters, the
sliding pole was thought of, which eliminated a great number of individual
motions and saved many seconds. And so on, as one device after another was
perfected which saved motions, and thereby time, it was adopted, until now the
'motion efficiency' in a fire house is one hundred per cent. It is useless to
improve it further, because it has reached a point where the company is ready
to start to a fire before it has received the number of the box."

The Fire Department a Personal Incentive

The various short-cuts of a fire department appeal to us because a burning
building impresses everyone dramatically with the value of time. The lurid
flames, the clanging engines, the shower of sparks, the hoarse shouts of
firemen, all urge speed. Yet in a private office the sands of life are counted
out, and here as elsewhere, used or unused, they return no more. In its own way
quite as dramatic as the burning of a building into ashes, this twenty-four
hours a day passes through our hands and then fades into the great beyond.
"Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for that is the stuff life is
made of."

The fact that short-cuts will save time, therefore, should assure their
employment. The benefits are tangible, realizable. The adoption of the
short-cut itself marks an increase in efficiency and the time saved when
capitalized is a handsome reward.

The Daily Use of Short-Cuts

To seek short-cuts is a worth-while principle. The executive who adopts this
principle

1. Emphasizes results, not motions.

2. Plans his work, then works his plan.

3. Keeps alert for time-saving schemes.

4. Gives a task the time it is worth, then gets it done on

time.

5. Concentrates, decides, and dispatches.

Exercises

Short-Cuts in Use

In order to secure the benefits which await you in short-cuts, check through
the foregoing list, raising in each case these questions:

Do I now make use of this short-cut? Compared with my former results, how much
time approximately has its adoption saved me daily?

In case this particular short-cut is not now being used, should it be used?
Compared with my present methods, how much time approxi' mately would its
adoption save me daily?

What short-cuts do I now use which do not appear upon this list? What is their
approximate time saving?

What additional short-cuts can I profitably devise for myself?

This exercise will provide the specific plans for driving directly to the goal;
for making every moment and every motion result-getting.

A Test of Progress

Do you know at what speed you can really work, if necessary? As a test, try
this exercise once in a while. Complete a day's work in your usual time,
recording the various tasks undertaken together with the time when each was
commenced and completed. File this record away for a month, or two months, or
whatever time you like.

Some day when your schedule can be arranged to duplicate the former day's work,
use its records as today's quota. Concentrate, decide, dispatch; let finished
tasks emerge from your hands with all possible speed and precision.

Such a test when carried out properly reveals this profound truth, that within
yourself are reservoirs of power commonly unused. By rousing these latent
forces, personality mounts above its old self and accomplishment attains a new
maximum. The efficient man—myself—thus enters into his true heritage.

The Short-Cut Point of View

The matter of short-cuts has a deeper significance than simply the clipping of
five minutes here, fifteen minutes there, throughout the day, valuable as that
accomplishment may be. It means, whatever the object, its attainment with
minimum wastage of time and effort, a proceeding toward it with a maximum of
effectiveness.

This deeper significance of short-cuts is indicated in the account of five
salesmen engaged in the field selling of a specialty whose records have been
compiled in chart 9. During the twenty-four days, D had called upon 300
prospects; A upon only ill. But A, who used the telephone intensively in the
making of appointments,' got in a full presentation once out of every two calls
made, whereas D succeeded in only one case out of ten in presenting his full
sales argument.

[table]

Test Chart 9. The Results of Twenty-four Working Days Compiled from the Records
of Five Specialty Salesmen

The quality of the full presentation made also must have differed considerably,
judged by the very matter-of-fact test—the average number of full presentations
per order secured. C showed himself here of high grade, closing successfully
almost every other man to whom he had presented his proposition; E was here
especially weak, being quite ready to accept, it seems, anything in the way of
excuses the prospect had to offer. It does not suffice merely to have things
under way; what counts is the work which is finished—the name on the dotted
line.

These five salesmen, as they faced each new day, had certain hours and certain
efforts which they sought to turn into money returns. The hours when real
salesmanship was under way—the time devoted to full presentations—were whittled
down in their respective cases to 1:51, 2:50, 1:25, 1:26, 1:48; the use of this
time resulted in earnings per hour, varying from $1.74 to $12.36.

The personal manager in his list of tasks scheduled for attention has, as it
were, so many prospects upon whom to call. Shall he, in, common with certain of
these five salesmen, be led off into winding paths and be put off with subtle
excuses for non-performance; or shall he employ his time and effort in the
direct presence of these prospects under those conditions of concentration,
decision, and dispatch which encourage full presentations and a strong close?

CHAPTER X
EFFICIENCY HABITS

There is no more miserable human being than one in whom
nothing is habitual.—William James.

Henry Ford and The Radiator Cap

Habit has come to be almost a term of reproach in modern business. It is
associated in popular thought with defective will or with imperfect
intelligence. We speak of a man's bad habits, meaning practices of personal
indulgence more or less questionable in themselves which impair his effective
command of such powers as he has developed. Or we speak of his business life as
ruled by habit, meaning usually that his mind is no longer active, that he is
working mechanically and ineffectively, or, in brief, as somewhat of an "old
fogy."

This, however, is only a part of the matter, and the negative part at that. The
other side, that which gets at the real nature of habit, is revealed in a story
told of Henry Ford, who in transforming automobile manufacture from a "splendid
adventure" into a process almost as certain as the tides, has taught us all the
lesson of standardization and habit—and incidentally amassed millions of
dollars as part of his personal reward.

A prominent consulting engineer once spent a day with Mr. Ford to discuss
certain engineering problems. He noticed that during every spare moment of the
morning Mr. Ford kept taking from his pocket a radiator cap and was apparently
engaged in some calculation regarding it. On inquiry he learned that the part
was of brass and cost half a cent too much to build. He suggested threading it
in a slightly different way, to which Mr. Ford replied: "Yes, that would be
cheaper, but whenever the water boiled it would get hot and bind." To several
other suggestions which he ventured, Mr. Ford immediately pointed out some
difficulty, whereupon he realized that his host had studied M1e problems
involved far beyond any suggestions he might be able to make. During the
afternoon Mr. Ford continued to give his attention at odd moments to the cap,
devoting several hours to its consideration. That evening the engineer
remarked: "I cannot understand how this small part, costing two or three cents
at the most, can be worth so much of your time. It is only a fourth or half a
cent that you can save in each piece." "Yes, that is true," Mr. Ford replied,
"but I am not thinking of one radiator cap. We shall need one on each of
185,000 cars this year, besides 25,000 for repairs. That makes 210,000 for this
year. We will make at least 50 per cent more cars next year. There is a saving
of $2,500, and when we get it settled it will be right for the next twenty
years."

Justifiable Expenditure

The point of this story comes at the end. "Planning" that cap cost some hours,
perhaps, of the time of a highly expensive man—an extravagance taken by itself.
But the expenditure was justifiable because once the operation was worked out
it could be made a matter of indefinite repetition at a cost virtually
negligible. Before it was thoroughly standardized, there was need from time to
time of tinkering and rearrangement by other upper officials—which was
expensive. Now it was "right for twenty years" and no one had to think about
it.

Habit does essentially the same thing for the individual's work, for the
executive's personal routine. It transforms what is scientifically accurate
into what is commercially practicable.

In reality, therefore, habit represents the essential part of standardization.
Standardization, we have seen, includes the planning of a process, etc.,
perhaps at the cost of much time, thought, money; and also dispatching
it—carrying through the operations determined upon—perhaps at the cost of
intense effort of will. But there must follow repetition of the new activity
without change an indefinite number of times—that is to say, the process must
become automatic, unforgettable, a habit.

The third stage is of vital importance to the practical man. Without it
standardization would be merely a pompous and expensive way of doing what could
be done perhaps as well by one swift guess. With it the improved method, the
process which has been proved right becomes a permanent possession—more
efficient and more profitable with every repetition. The profit from a
standardized operation does not begin to come until the operation has become a
matter of course—a habit. After that point the costs go steadily down and the
profits increase.

The Nervous System a Business Organization

Consider a little the way in which the human mind works, or rather the
structure and functions of the nervous system on which the working of the mind
depends. Formidable psychological discussions in highly technical language may
well leave the business man's mind confused and impatient with the whole
subject. Yet psychology means nothing more than knowing how the mind works.
Understanding its principles enables one to get better service from his own
mind—his nervous apparatus.

The nervous system, as we call it, extends throughout the body. (See Figure
22.) Its various parts are composed of tiny plastic cells, which strike each
other and rebound when messages—those from the outside are called
sensations—are passed along. Study of the system and its operation will show in
the first place its curious resemblance to the organization of an active
business house, with subordinates, subexecutives, general manager, etc.

The first impressions or sensations—messages—from the

[graphic]

Figure 22. Brain and Spina! Cord, with the Thirty-one Pairs
of Spinal Nerves

(Reproduced from Doty's "I'rompt Aid to the Injured," by permission of D.
Applcton

& Company)

outside come through the organs of sight, taste, smell, feeling, and hearing to
the nerves. The nerves may be compared to the telephone and telegraph wires,
the railroads, and the mails, which keep a business organization in touch with
its materials and markets.

But these impressions or sensations do not travel very far along the nerves
towards headquarters until they meet a little nerve knot, or ganglion, which
passes upon their message. If it is of a routine sort merely, the ganglion
decides the matter itself, just as an office boy might under similar
circumstances. A message of higher sort goes on by the ganglion and quickly
reaches the medulla oblongata.

The medulla oblongata rests at the top of the spinal cord, as a sort of
clearing house for automatic and semi-automatic actions. While it is of higher
rank than the myriad ganglia, its functions are very much the same. It might be
referred to as the chief of the routine department. Certain messages and orders
are too important for dispatch by the medulla, of course, and these are passed
on to the cerebellum.

The cerebellum is the "little brain'' lying just above the medulla, yet still
far back and low in the brain case or skull. It has charge of the voluntary
muscles, that is, over those which operate under the direction of our will. The
beating of the heart goes on whether we think of it or not, but when we sign a
contract the cerebellum directs the muscles. In general, the cerebellum might
be called the seat of the action department.

The cerebrum, crowning the nervous system both in size and function, acts as
general manager in the nervous organization. It fills almost all the brain
case. Just as the most important messages and orders come finally to the
general manager, so the main business of the mind, its general policy so to
speak, is transacted in the cerebrum.

Habit is Standardized Nerve Action

It is a striking feature of the business organization of the mind that work is
constantly being shifted, as it becomes familiar, from the higher faculties to
the lower ones. The first time a certain action is performed, such as braking

an automobile, so great is the difficulty encountered that the general manager
himself must take a hand in directing the muscles. Under continued repetition,
however, the nerve cells shape themselves in a more definite order—the action
is controlled by sub-officials—until finally a habit is formed. As the motor
car ahead of ours stops, we put pressure on the brake without in the least
disturbing those creative business plans our cerebrum may be shaping up.

This process by which actions that are often repeated come to be automatic, the
process of the formation of habits, is going on all the time. It is regular and
inevitable.

The Efficient versus the Inefficient Way

The efficient man keeps the big things in mind, as we have said, but he also
keeps his mind free and open about them— does not let himself form habits about
matters of great importance. But the little things he standardizes according to
a well-considered plan.

The inefficient man does not reduce to habit the routine tasks of the day. The
writing of every letter, the O K'ing of every order, the use of particular
pencils or pens, the time of going out to lunch, the things he will eat, are to
him all subjects of express volitional deliberation. His mind is ever harassed
and distracted, and the reason is simple; the general manager is doing office
boy work.

Every useful action possible, such as ways of dressing, eating, working, in
short, all the minor details of existence, should be made automatic and
habitual. All such matters can then be turned over to the lower nervous systems
for attention, leaving the general manager unfettered to transact the main
business of life. The nervous system is designed for this very purpose and the
man who would be efficient takes advantage of its wonderfully simple yet
adequate organization.

The insistence in former chapters upon what the reader may have considered
small matters, is here explained. The man who does not keep the clips or the
stamps or the envelopes in certain definite places has to call in the higher
brain center when he wants to find one of them. The man who does not "make a
note of it," who refuses to employ a secretary, who will not use a filing
system, also is insisting that the general manager do all the work.

Double Waste

There is another side to the matter. It is doubly wasteful for the general
manager to do office boy work: he is kept from doing his own work and he is
less efficient at the routine work than the boy is. When a person has to put
his conscious will upon braking the automobile he will not do it nearly so well
as when it is taken care of by the automatic centers. So with every operation
in life. Practice makes perfect, we say. The reason is that with practice an
activity is taken over by the lower nerve centers, swift, steady, and serene.

In the mental life quite as truly as among large corporations, there is need
for both general manager and office boy. But neither should do the other's
work.

Productive Power Capitalized

The various plans outlined in previous chapters at times have called for the
substitution in place of one's familiar ruleof-thumb method of standards more
or less new. And it is true that this demand for substitution calls into action
the higher brain centers and for the time being is inefficient. But not for
long. The new habit is in truth an investment which once made will pay
dividends long into the future. "Prove all things," said the Apostle who
reached every rank of people, but "hold fast that which is good."

Whoever imbibes deeply in his nervous tissues the habits of truthfulness,
cleanliness, industry, kindness, appreciation, moral integrity and hope, later
lives upon these habits without price and without effort. Likewise he who by
the sweat of his brow raises himself to a new level of personal efficiency
henceforth shall receive dividends from the most gilt-edge of securities—his
own productive power capitalized as efficiency habits.

In making such habits a man's own, there are certain simple rules which if
followed will be of great assistance. Some of these rules are discussed on the
following pages.

Habits Inevitable; Which Kind?

In thinking over habits it is well to recognize that the nervous system as we
grow older becomes less plastic. "Already at the age of twenty-five," says
William James, "you see the professional mannerism settling down on the young
commercial traveler, on the young doctor, on the young minister, on the young
counselor-at-law. You see the little lines of cleavage running through the
character, the tricks of thought, the prejudices, the ways of the 'shop,' in a
word, from which the man can by-and-by no more escape than his coat-sleeve can
suddenly fall into a new set of folds. On the whole, it is best he should not
escape. It is well for the world that in most of us, by the age of thirty, the
character has set like plaster, and will never soften again."

As far-sighted personal managers intent upon developing effectiveness in the
highest degree, into what kinds of producing methods shall we allow our nervous
system gradually to harden? Into methods hit upon by chance? Then the
attainment of our goal being left to accident, we are as mariners without
compass ever on the verge of shipwreck.

Right methods are not the result of chance, but the product of careful analysis
and constructive thought. These right methods are called standards," the summum
bonum in all attempts to attain efficiency and the real goal in the formation
of habits.

Standardisation is the first step in the formation of habits.

Thought Followed by Action

The standard must not remain merely a thought, an abstraction over which in the
mental world we can sentimentalize and dream ourselves into the fond notion
that somewhere, sometime, we really shall become efficient. "Hell is paved with
good intentions." The efficient man sets about attaining his effectiveness now,
and he attacks the first problem feasible no matter how small; he does not wait
for the new year with its resolutions, nor until he be promoted to his present
superior's desk.

"The actual presence of the practical opportunity," says Bahnsen, "alone
furnishes the fulcrum upon which the lever can rest, by means of which the
moral will may multiply its strength, and raise itself aloft. He who has no
solid ground to press against will never get beyond the stage of empty
gesture-making."

When the resolution to accomplish seizes you, when the glow of inspiration
permeates your being through and through, reach for a sheet of paper and write
down at least one specific, concrete order to yourself. Impractical, nerveless
sentimentalism, spineless indecision will then be avoided, and your fine
resolution will begin to bear practical fruit.

The habits you aspire to gain are reached not by moralising or theorising but
through concrete acts.

Keeping Fully "Sold" On a Subject

Salesmen are all familiar with the prospect who is about to sign on the dotted
line, then suddenly draws back. Sometimes he signs but changes his mind and
cancels the order before the salesman can get away; sometimes he wires the
house the cancellation, sometimes he refuses the shipment, sometimes he returns
the goods. In all these cases the salesman explains the difficulty by saying
the prospect was not fully "sold."

It is the same in forming habits; resolution is necessary, you must fully
"sell" yourself on the new habit. "Accumulate all the possible circumstances
which shall re-enforce the right motives," says William James, "put yourself
assiduously in conditions that encourage the new way; make engagements
incompatible with the old; take a public pledge, if the case allows; in short,
envelop your resolution with every aid you know. This will give your new
beginning such a momentum that the temptation to break down will not occur so
soon as it otherwise might; and every day during which a breakdown is postponed
adds to the chances of its not occurring at all."

Enter into the new habit with every possible incentive and resolution.

The Road to Full Efficiency

The best of incentives in the formation of habits is success. The man who
dispatches an extraordinary day's work is thereby encouraged to surpass himself
still further; the man who exceeds a hard schedule feels confident of his power
to negotiate a harder schedule; success has encouraged him.

Success, however, is precisely what the efficiency enthusiast is most likely to
deny himself. With a sudden realization of the heights to which he may attain,
he draws up an impossible plan. Failure is inevitable, a gruesome failure, for
the wicked habits just swept out return pell-mell, multiplied in number like
the seven devils of old. The aspirant for efficiency has been ruined by
attempting too much.

In acquiring habits we are in the presence of two hostile powers: one the new
standard, the other the old rule-of-thumb method. "It is necessary, above all
things, in such a situa

tion," says Professor Bain, "never to lose a battle. Every gain on the wrong
side undoes the effect of many conquests on the right. The essential
precaution, therefore, is so to regulate the two opposing powers that the one
may have a series of uninterrupted successes, until repetition has fortified it
to such a degree as to enable it to cope with the opposition, under any
circumstances. This is theoretically the best career of mental progress."

The path is clear. In moving toward personal effectiveness beware of
undertaking too much at the start. The goal worth while is not to be attained
in one day. Introduce one method, then another; mend your ways day by day. The
brain cells are plastic and subject to modification, but they are no mushroom
growth and cannot be reshaped over night. Proceed steadily though slowly, allow
yourself to succeed again and again as you advance. While the full efficiency
desired is a matter of years, not days, each time a thing is done well the next
time it is made easier.

Suffer no exception until the new habit is securely rooted in the nervous
system.

The Influence of Habit Upon Creative Work

Whatever aversion the business man has to forming habits is commonly found upon
investigation to be due to a fear that once bound by habit he may degenerate
into old-fogyism and lose his power to do creative work. To a certain extent
this fear is justified. A habit unchecked may in the end assert mastery and, as
is often seen among older men, lead its once brilliant victim to a treadmill
existence. Yet after all the danger is much the same when an office boy is
engaged; he, too, if unchecked might oust the general manager. The remedy,
however, is certainly not to dispense with office boys, but simply to exercise
discipline over them. When this is done, the habits, over which in the
beginning we have labored, are transformed into faithful subordinates, ever on
call, ready to serve. System then exists in the man, embedded in his nervous
tissues.

What has this result to do with our all-round executive effectiveness? Asked to
make a rough classification of his activities, the business man is likely to
respond, "Routine work and creative work." Going further he will probably say,
"Routine work takes more time but creative work is more important." This is
entirely correct. Creative work it is which enables a business man to rise to
his full genius as an executive—but routine work must be done.

It is precisely the systematization of this never-ending routine which the
foregoing chapters have had in view. The big things in business, of course, do
not center in details well handled, office layouts, private secretaries,
short-cuts, daily plans and schedules; nevertheless, because they do care for
his routine, the executive's personality is left unhampered to grapple with
larger problems. Through their use he attains real freedom.

The system with which we have been concerned to this point is thus the
foundation of creative work.

Exercises

Standardizing Good Practice

"Did I make the most of today?"

It is a good question to raise. The man ambitious to forge ahead in business
will put into the day.s work his best, but, while this practically guarantees
progress, as a matter of safety and satisfaction to himself he ought to check
his results occasionally.

Such a taking of stock let us make at this point. What we have sought in the
preceding chapters is the systematization of the day's work, and we now desire
to review in general terms our situation. This review is outlined in Test Chart
10.

Suppose we grade our replies to the nine questions on the basis that
standardization equals 100 per cent. Taking up each question in order we ask:
"My present situation justifies what grade with respect to this question?" When
all the replies have been graded, add the percentages and divide by nine. What
do you average?

This average when collected in the square underneath the outline represents
your attainment to date. The raising of the number steadily until it approaches
100 per cent constitutes our next problem. We wish to solve this problem
because the average represents our attainments capitalized as habits.

[blocks in formation]

Average Date

Test Chart 10. The Systematization of the Day's Work is Here Reviewed in Nine
General Questions

Benjamin Franklin's Method

A quaint example of how a person may utilize the ratchet principle of control
through habits is found in Benjamin Franklin's "Autobiography," and the account
is cited here, since the method adopted by Franklin worked successfully in a
field where definite results are particularly difficult to secure and record.

"It was about this time," writes Franklin, "I conceived the bold and arduous
project of arriving at moral perfection. I wished to live without committing
any fault at any time; I would conquer all that either natural inclination,
custom, or company might lead me into. As I knew, or thought I knew, what was
right and wrong. I did not see why I might not always do the one and avoid the
other. But I soon found I had undertaken a task of more difficulty than I had
imagined. While my care was employed in guarding against one fault, I was often
surprised by another; habit took the advantage of inattention; inclination was
sometimes too strong for reason. I concluded, at length, that . . . the
contrary habits must be broken, and good ones acquired and established. . . .
For this purpose I therefore contrived the following method. I included under
thirteen names of virtues all that at that time occurred to me as necessary or
desirable, and annexed to each a short precept, which fully expressed the
extent I gave to its meaning.

"These names of virtues, with their precepts, were:

"1. Temperance. Eat not to dullness; drink not to elevation.

"2. Silence. Speak not but what may benefit others or yourself; avoid trifling
conversation.

"3. Order. Let all your things have their places; let each part of your
business have its time.

"4. Resolution. Resolve to perform what you ought; perform without fail what
you resolve.

"5. Frugality. Make no expense but to do good to others or yourself; i.e.,
waste nothing.

"6. Industry. Lose no time; be always employed in something useful; cut off all
unnecessary actions.

"7. Sincerity. Use no hurtful deceit; think innocently and justly; and, if you
speak, speak accordingly.

"8. Justice. Wrong none by doing injuries, or omitting the benefits that are
your duty.

"9. Moderation. Avoid extremes; forbear resenting injuries so much as you think
they deserve.

"10. Cleanliness. Tolerate no uncleanliness in body, clothes, or habitation.

"11. Tranquillity. Be not disturbed at trifles, or at accidents common or
unavoidable.

"12. Chastity.

"13. Humility.

"My intention being to acquire the habitude of all these virtues, I judged it
would be well not to distract my attention by attempting the whole at once, but
to fix it on one of them at a time; and, when I should be master of that, then
to proceed to another, and oO on, till I should have gone through the thirteen.
. . .

"I made a little book, in which I allotted a page for each of the virtues. I
ruled each page with red ink, so as to have seven columns, one for each day of
the week, marking each column with a letter for the day. I crossed these
columns with thirteen red lines, marking the beginning of each line with the
first letter of one of the virtues, on which line, and in its proper column, I
might mark, by a little black spot, every fault I found upon examination to
have been committed respecting that virtue upon that day.

"I determined to give a week's strict attention to each of the virtues
successively. Thus, in the first week, my great guard was to avoid every least
offense against temperance, leaving the other virtues to their ordinary chance,
only marking every evening the faults of the day. Thus, if in the first week I
could keep my first line, marked 'T,' clear of spots, I supposed the habit of
that virtue so much strengthened, and its opposite weakened, that I might
venture extending my attention to include the next, and for the following week
keep both lines clear of spots. Proceeding thus to the last, I could go through
a course complete in thirteen weeks, and four courses in a year. And like him
who, having a garden to weed, does not attempt to eradicate all the bad herbs
at once, which would exceed his reach and his strength, but works on one of the
beds at a time, and, having accomplished the first, proceeds to a second, so I
should have, I hoped, the encouraging pleasure of seeing on my pages the
progress I made in virtue, by clearing successively my lines of their spots,
till in the end, by a number of courses, I should be happy in viewing a clean
book, after a thirteen weeks' daily examination."

Whatever we may think of Franklin's undertaking, the method itself affords a
good object lesson in personal management. Franklin:

Set for himself a general purpose.

Analyzed this general purpose into its constituent elements.
Prepared definite plans, with written instructions.
Checked his progress regularly.

Few problems facing the executive, hard though they appear, are able to
withstand such a systematic assault.

Applying the Principle

Suppose we utilize the principles here exemplified, applied in a simpler form
to the problems immediately before us.

The exercises which have been worked through in connection with preceding
chapters will have revealed various possibilities,

among which we may now select the choicest yet unrealized. What we wish to
select are certain possibilities in which a given amount of time and effort is
able to effect a maximum improvement. Use Test Chart n for recording your
choices. These choices finally we proceed to realize in practice, employing for
this purpose the rules of habit formation discussed in the present chapter. The
check marks in the last column record our advance.

[table][merged small]

PART IV
THE THINKER IN BUSINESS

He who hopes for success must organize, prepare, enlist method and science, if
he would live upon the high plane which business has now reached.—A. C.
Bartlett, President of Hibbard, Spencer, Bartlett and Co.

Keeping a little ahead of conditions is one of the secrets of successful
business; the trailer seldom goes very far.— Charles M. Schwab, Chairman,
Bethlehem Steel Corporation.

CHAPTER XI

INITIATIVE AND VISION

Some men seem to have a golden touch. Everything to which they turn their hand
yields miraculously.—Frank W. Taussig, Harvard University.

Routine and Constructive Thought

The aim of the preceding chapters has been so to aid in systematizing the
clay's work that its necessary routine may be cleared away with ease and
dispatch. While this act in itself is an attainment much to be desired, its
most important result is the freeing of the executive's mind for constructive
effort. The real leader in business is the man who thinks, investigates, weaves
new plans, and looks ahead.

The succeeding chapters deal with the principles and methods through which this
constructive effort is brought into most effective operation. The problems
treated are difficult because they concern highly complex elements in human
nature and are vital because they concern the continued life and growth of the
business or department of business over which the executive presides.

The Perception of Opportunity

The first question which the man who- intends to do really big things in
business puts to himself is, "Where are my best opportunities for profits?" He
raises this question in no narrow, sordid sense, because the ambition to do
things worth while, to achieve distinction, to acquire knowledge and exercise
skill, to play in a masterful way the two great games of business and life,
constitute his persistent motive force. Granted, however, that these things,
and not a sordid love of money for itself alone, are what he would have, the
way to attain them requires that first of all he locate the most profitladen
opportunities. He is not merely to "dig in" and look no further when the first
prospects show.

In the search for possibilities of superior service or, in other words, for
opportunities for profits there are at best five broad lines which deserve
consideration:

1. Exploitation of natural resources

2. Development of inventions

3. Improvements in production and distribution

4. Fluctuations in values

5. Supplying known wants

1. Exploitation of Natural Resources

"The world puts its richest prizes at the feet of great organizing ability,
enterprise, and foresight," says John D. Rockefeller, Jr., "because such
qualities are rare and yet indispensable to the development of the vast natural
resources which otherwise would lie useless on the earth's surface or in its
hidden depths."

In her oil fields, timber tracts, coal beds, mineral deposits, waterfalls and
virgin land, nature has abundantly provided for the American. While these rich
opportunities cannot last forever, they are not yet exhausted. Those which
remain, however, require wiser and more economical management than has
characterized much of their treatment in the past, which was well termed
"exploitation," in the worst sense of the term. Those who controlled them
usually considered that they were privileged to grind labor in production and
at the other end extort the largest amounts possible from the consumer.

The resources, such as forests, coal, and water-power which yet remain in the
hands of the government will be guardedly leased to parties who desire to use
them, and the

use of those already in private control is liable to be restricted.
Nevertheless, all of - these natural resources are going to be utilized in the
future more effectively than ever before. To manage and operate them under
government lease or regulation will demand greater business ability and better
executive capacity than in the past, when inefficiency in management could be
made good by an extra charge to the consumer. Both in reputation and in
compensation the rewards will be sure and rich, although it is not likely that
any aggregations of wealth such as the Rockefeller fortune will ever again come
into the hands of an individual.

2. Development of Inventions

John N. Willys who later was to enter a new field with great success, stood one
day in 1899, looking out of a window in a Cleveland skyscraper, when he noticed
a four-wheeled vehicle creeping along the street. No horse was attached to it.
From where he stood it looked exactly like a carriage.

Quoting Mr. Willys' own words in relating the incident, "I immediately said to
myself, that machine has all the bicycles in the country beaten hollow—I was
then in the bicycle business. I made up my mind that I would get into this new
field at the first moment possible. I investigated and found that I had seen a
Winton car; but I did not then get a chance to examine it."

The resolution thus quickly made, led Mr. Willys eventually to his present
place in the foremost ranks of motor car manufacturers as President of the
Willys-Overland Company.

Mr. Willys is typical of men who discover, invent, or make available, new means
of want-gratification.

In the field of transportation, trolley cars, steam trains and automobiles have
almost superseded horses and coaches. For purposes of communication, the
telephone, the typewriter, and the telegraph replace the pen and the messenger
boy. In the home, the electric light, the refrigerator, the gas stove, the
vacuum cleaner, the washing machine, the steam radiator, and the packages of
breakfast food and bakery products, have all replaced the slower or
less-efficient means.

The moving picture industry has made fortunes for scores of men. The varied
forms of the phonograph have built up great industries. The automobile industry
has opened the way to success for countless men.

The Ford Motor Car Company, the National Cash Register Company, the Burroughs
Adding Machine Company, the Westinghouse Air Brake Company, the American
Radiator Company, the Mergenthaler Linotype Company, and hundreds of other
concerns based upon successful invention and now capitalized at many millions,
were once without any tangible value whatever—simply ideas.

Since consumers invariably have more wants than can possibly be gratified, the
inventor or the man who wishes to make an invention commercially successful,
must assure himself that it satisfies some of these ungratified wants. If he
does this he founds his profit-seeking enterprise upon a most secure basis.

3. Improvements in Production and Distribution

The business executive is now and will in the future be subjected to pressure
exerted by the worker for a larger compensation and by the consumer for lower
prices; or, what is the same thing, the consumer will demand more for what he
spends. The executive must seek the solution of this problem along two chief
lines: (1) by improvements in production, (2) by improvements in distribution.

The most intelligent, the most alert, the most resourceful manufacturers and
dealers are going to excel in this improvement of methods and will build up big
businesses for themselves. The less intelligent, the less teachable, and the
too conservative will fall behind and in the fierce struggle the competitors
will unerringly align themselves, some far in the rear. With improved methods
of production and distribution a certain price comes to be set for a commodity,
which spells actual loss to the plodding and the unprogressive but gain to the
enterprising, to whom the selling price still allows a comfortable profit.
Their use of improved methods gives them a lower cost and a wider margin for
profit.

4. Fluctuations in Values

Another opportunity for business gain is found in the fact that practically
every commodity with which .the business man has to deal—wheat, cotton, oil,
merchandise, metals, machinery, real estate, building materials,
labor—fluctuates in price from year to year and even from day to day.

Such variations delight the shrewd bargainer since he thereby sees an opening
for that oft-used principle of his, "buy low and sell high."

"The only time I ever saw John Rockefeller enthusiastic," said an early
acquaintance in commenting upon Mr. Rockefeller's ability to drive a good
bargain, "was when a report came in from the creek that his buyer had secured a
cargo of oil at a figure much below the market price. He bounded from his chair
with a shout of joy, danced up and down, hugged me, threw up his hat and acted
so like a madman that I have never forgotten it."

The industrial history of America for decades has been characterized by a
series of alternating periods of prosperity and depression, which, despite
certain highly commendable efforts to provide against them, doubtless will
continue in the future. Such periods of prosperity and depression, whether
accompanied by wars or peace treaties, droughts or bounteous crops, easy money
or financial stringency, result in the upheavals which profit-seekers
-heretofore have utilized to their advantage. Whether he deals in real estate,
securities, grain or foreign exchange, the business man bases his operations
upon the prevailing price level of the commodities in which he is interested.
He estimates the future in terms of a changed price level and either buys or
sells as the result of his estimate.

5. Supplying Known Wants

In books on salesmanship and among groups of salesmen spinning yarns in hotel
lobbies the "prospect" is often conceived as of jelly-fish mentality, it being
the salesman's task to trick him deftly into buying something he does not want.
A moment's reflection will show that most of the selling in the world is the
sale of things that people want, are greatly interested in, and in fact must
have. The great businesses of the world are the production and sale of
necessary commodities to consumers who are anxious to get them.

All of us spend the largest proportions of our income in supplying ourselves
with the things we must have. Each human being requires food, shelter, clothes,
fuel and light. These are the great necessities of life. Most of us make our
living and what measure of fortune we can by producing or selling something to
supply these diverse wants. People in the future are going to demand these same
things in a fuller measure and of better quality, and all who desire business
openings can find them in the production, the manufacture, and the
distribution, not of the things people do not want, but of the things they do
want. Here we have again the idea of service, which constitutes in business the
great, never ceasing opportunity.

Needs and the Law of Service

In the location of opportunity it is significant to note that the leaders of
business today, however different the particular commodity with which each
deals, usually proceed upon one central principle. Men such as John Wanamaker
and Marshall Field in merchandising, Frank A. Vanderlip and Otto Kahn among
bankers, and Henry Ford and W. L. Douglas among manufacturers win their large
profits through superior service. Upon the basis solely of such superior
service, they have been able to keep friends, patrons, and employees; to build
up strong, enduring business organizations; and to shape for themselves notable
careers as gainers of profits, in the best sense of that word.

"This is the service the new business man now can render his day and his
people," declares E. St. Elmo Lewis, "create a greater business in the service
of the people."

The Many Roads Upward

The opportunities for profits, indicated in a general way by the foregoing
paragraphs, are exceedingly numerous. In fact, the thirty largest fortunes of
America, according to a tabulation recently made by Forbes' Magazine, had as
their chief source, sixteen different businesses. The road to profits obviously
is not a narrow, hedged-in path; it is not, indeed, a path at all, but a broad
highway along which many types of vehicle may pass.

"Do not hesitate to engage in any legitimate business," says Andrew Carnegie,
"for there is no business in America, I do not care what, which will not yield
a fair profit if it receives the unremitting, exclusive attention, and all the
capital of capable, industrious men."

The Business Man's Task

The Great War has revolutionized business methods and has inculcated certain
business truths that will mean a permanently changed business order. German
efficiency, which before the war was rapidly possessing itself of the trade,
the manufacturing, and the financing of the world will not find

its former rivals, France, Great Britain, and America, unmindful of the new
order. Purged of many an old inefficiency the Allied nations will go forward
upon a new basis. If we are to play our part as a great industrial nation, the
demands on those who aspire to lead will not slacken. The business men of the
future, the producers and distributors of commodities, will have man-sized jobs
laid out for them, and the half-trained, uninformed slackers who are not ready
to meet the new conditions will be crowded aside with scant ceremony.

Alertness a Business Asset

The large gains, the conspicuous careers wrought out in our country in the past
and to be attained in the future by the young executives of the day, have
resulted or will result, from change in conditions, from the exploitation of
new projects by men of intelligence and daring originality.

The average grade of ability under normal conditions will receive its
conservative reward, but the executive not satisfied with that must needs
cultivate something new and unusual; must take advantage of changes and new
opportunities as they offer. Alertness to discover and seize opportunities at
the right time constitutes a most valuable business asset.

A Dayton merchant, suffering from a nervous breakdown due to overwork and worry
in attempting to keep tabs on the details of his retail store, noticed in the
engine room of the ship which was taking him to Europe a device which recorded
the number of revolutions of the propeller shaft. Hundreds of other passengers
had observed the same device without any particular consequence, but in the
mind of Jacob Ritty this question at once arose, "Why not construct a machine
that will record each coin put in the till?" Hurrying home to Dayton, he set to
work with his brother, a skilled mechanic, and evolved the first cash register.

The crude yet novel machine soon afterwards came to the attention of a second
alert intellect, in the person of a smalltown merchant whose store was located
some distance from Ritty's tiny factory at Dayton. Impressed by the vast
possibilities of the device, this John H. Patterson took over the patents and
founded the now world-famous National Cash Register Company.

The thousands of visitors at the Centennial Exposition in 1876 considered the
bicycle exhibited there merely a curiosity; Colonel Pope recognized in it the
basis of a new industry and he returned to Hartford to enter upon his notable
career as a manufacturer.

The changes which took place in the sulphur-cured indiarubber accidentally
dropped by Charles Goodyear upon a stove, meant nothing to his good-natured
friends; to Goodyear it was a revelation—the long-sought process of treating
rubber gum.

The streets black with telephone wires were for years in plain sight of
thousands, yet it remained for Theodore Vail to dream of wires underground and
at Attleboro to begin his first experiments. That wires should be underground
now appears obvious but persons fifty years from now will wonder why persons
today overlooked so many things to them equally obvious.

Though they travel the same road together, men do not see the same things. As
Russell Sage dryly remarked, "Some people never see opportunity in anything and
they never get along." The explanation which these ne'er-do-wells often advance
is that opportunity knocks but once upon each man's door and, should he prove
unresponsive, passes along never to return; they, unfortunately, failed to
recognize the presence, hence their present plight. Of the many absurd ideas
which encumber the human mind this deserves high rank as the worst. Since
business conditions are continually changing, the opportunity for an alert mind
to seize upon enterprises at the psychological moment never is closed.

Pioneer versus Followers

The pioneer, with a mind alert to the significance of that which he sees,
continually keeps tilling and harvesting in the most fertile fields, while the
follower either contents himself with the former's once worked fields or,
having once secured handsome returns in a certain venture, continues
persistently in this same activity, oblivious of the fact that the field is
worked out.

The profit-maker keeps his facilities always mobilized, ready to move in
whatever direction gain calls.

Rockefeller's early success as a monopolist was founded upon railway rebates,
but as soon as the independent refiners thought to best him by inducing a pipe
line, he promptly eschewed railroads and the Standard was soon pumping oil to
New York. Commodore Vanderbilt believed in sailing vessels, but after a time he
saw the superiority of steam and turned to steamboats; and later, beginning to
feel the effect of rail transportation, he sold his beautiful steamers and
reinvested his money in the rusty iron rails and wheezy little locomotives of
the competing railways. The Commodore was then an old man and his opinion of
railroads prior thereto had been scarcely printable, but these things did not
keep him from the profitable path.

The Power of Initiative

The profit maker is a cultivator of the new, a herald of things to come. The
rapidity of his innovations outdistances competitors. Bankrupt railroads,
overcapitalized factories, problematic inventions, or offerings of novelty
shoes and spring hats he evaluates in terms of the future.

"We take pleasure in the success of everybody in business," says John
Wanamaker, "and even when instant duplication of our methods is attempted we
hope that tomorrow we shall be as fresh as today, and shall be in the future as
in the past attempting to do what has hitherto been unattempted."

The present is obvious, and as such is usually found to have been already
exploited. Even a new plan, in its day considered highly original, assures no
permanent hold; competitors abound and their advances gradually undermine the
prosperity of any stationary concern. Only through initiative, the power to
produce new ideas continually, is permanent advantage possible.

They copied all they could follow,
But they couldn't follow my mind;

And I left them sweating and stealing
A year and a half behind.

The Fresh Viewpoint

The new idea is a magnet drawing profits to its possessor. It attracts unto
itself money, men, and materials; expresses its presence in unique designs,
prompt deliveries, low costs and satisfactory service; and, the real soul of
the organization, determines the onward career of office, store, or factory.
The organization manned by creative thinkers is founded upon a rock.

The great value of ideas to men in business is coming to be more fully
appreciated. The executives in the front ranks, in fact, are even now past the
stage of discussion, and instead are intent upon the best methods of
systematically cultivating new ideas.

An excellent first suggestion is offered by the history of inventions. The
cotton-gin was the work not of a southern planter, as might have been expected,
but of a Connecticut schoolmaster; the idea of the Jenney car coupler was
evolved from the brain of an illiterate French-Canadian, who knew more about
brands of whiskey than railroads; the Bessemer process was formulated by a man
who had no connection with the iron and steel trade, and knew little or nothing
of metallurgy. "Persons wholly unconnected with a particular business,"
declared Bessemer in explaining how he had entered upon his career untrammeled
by notions, "are the men who make all the great inventions of the age."

The outsider's fresh viewpoint accounts for this paradoxical fact. Men engaged
in a particular business are, too commonly, mere diligent workers, plodders who
perform their daily routine without a comprehensive system, without inventive
or constructive ability—sterile workers who lack vision. These workers in a rut
cannot see anything but the day's work ahead. In an executive position they are
digging their business graves.

In order to seek out, attain and utilize the fresh viewpoint for himself, the
executive must keep himself free from entangling masses of detail. Vacations,
rest periods, and change of occupation keep a man fit and provide the
conditions under which the development of new ideas is encouraged. In addition,
he should by conference, by discussion and similar methods, get the opinions of
others on his problems. An open-minded attitude at these conferences and
elsewhere will yield a rich harvest. At times, it may be worth while to get in
an auditor or efficiency expert to examine and report anything that may be
wrong or lacking. If a new man is taken on, his impressions before he settles
into the existing routine will often supply a valuable corrective.

The Raw Material of Ideas

It cannot be too strongly emphasized that the mind cannot shape up new ideas
unless it is supplied with appropriate raw material. Corporation heads
oftentimes complain that their junior executives are sterile, but they do not
appreciate

the fact that the junior's mind, however eager, cannot produce if starved. The
executive anxious to cultivate the power of initiative in himself and in those
working under him, ought in justice to all concerned, to see that the necessary
materials for thinking are provided. What are some of the sources of these raw
materials?

A noted advertising man—advertising of all businesses being one which demands
originality—clips every illustration which contains a figure, a pose, a layout,
or an idea of any kind that he finds stimulating. Material of value can be
found in the educational trip, the late books, the trade paper, the magazine
article, the conference, the new friend. "When I get hold of a man who is
versed in the Word of God," said Moody, "I just pump him."

John Jacob Astor gained from a loquacious immigrant the idea of that fur trade
upon which his fortune was to be founded; James J. Hill, a shipping clerk at
St. Paul, drew from the journals of Lewis and Clark and Irving's "Astoria" the
materials which fired his imagination to be empire builder of the northwest;
George Pullman, forced one night to lie awake as the bunk car in which he rode
jolted along from Buffalo to Westfield, gained the experience which was to
bring about a new sleeping car.

The Search for Business Ideas

In modern factory and office practice, suggestion box, questionnaire, and call
to conference, are among the means employed in securing new ideas or new
applications of old ideas.

Early in his railroading career young Cassatt, late president of the
Pennsylvania system, made it his business to be the most approachable of
division superintendents. No man was ever more sought after by cranks and
geniuses alike, with their models of automatic couplers, sleeping cars, tanking
and signaling systems, than was Cassatt. lie was willing to seek through chaff
to find wheat. He made it a rule, moreover, to be even more accessible to his
own petty employees. Brakemen, switch tenders, trackmen, all found the door to
his private office open, and their practical suggestions enabled many an
innovation to reach its highest value.

"Bringing this down to actual factory management," says Superintendent Field of
the Illinois Steel Company, "we try to get this feeling into our men by always
stimulating the initiative in them. We are ready to pay the cost of anything
that any of our men makes in our line and then the patent belongs to him, we
having the shop rights and he having the right to sell the patent or to receive
royalty from its use anywhere else he chooses." Some executives have carried
this plan so far that the thought atmosphere of the establishment has been
transformed. All become co-operators in the development of new ideas.

Imagination, a Quality of Empire Builders

The supply of materials, however necessary, constitutes but the preliminary
step in the development of a new idea. The crude materials, though nuggets in
the rough, are to be refashioned under the impress of the imagination. It is
true that business men have too often regarded the imagination as a faculty
required only by poets, novelists, musicians, and painters. Thinking of it
merely in terms of the bizarre flights of fancy that sometimes steal upon one
in reverie or in sleep after eating overmuch, it is not strange that they have
considered "imaginative" synonymous with "impractical," and their greatest
dread has been to be called visionary.

Not so with great leaders. The men who have made their lasting impress upon
industry—empire builders such as Cecil Rhodes and James J. Hill, creators of
new products like Cyrus McCormick and George Westinghouse, financial organizers
like J. Pierpont Morgan, founders of famous enterprises such as George Pullman,
Andrew Carnegie, and George Eastman—have in every case possessed power of
imagination. They saw more than other men saw. The vast expanses of territory
left unoccupied, the neglected mineral deposits, the small struggling
organizations with inadequate capital, or the poor and inefficient plant
equipment at which these men gazed were, by the intensity of their creative
imagination, transformed into those greater things to be. The solid realities
which later appeared listed upon the balance sheets represented the
materialization only of those mental pictures which shaped themselves before
their constructive minds.

Development of New Ideas

The imagination creates and develops, not merely reproducing the raw materials
with which the mental shelves have been stored. Its creations are often as
different from the original materials as are crude metals and finished
timepieces, or raw cocoons and dainty silken garments. This process of mental
elaboration, the manufacture of new thought products, well deserves the serious
interest of an executive. He cannot safely be too busy to think.

A certain stockholder of the Standard Oil Company—so runs a story told by a
president of the Illinois Manufacturers' Association—was much annoyed upon
glancing from his office window to the offices of the oil company across the
way to observe one of its department managers day after day standing with his
hands in his pockets, gazing out into the street for the greater part of his
time.

"Here is a man who draws a five-figure salary," thought the stockholder, "who
is loafing on the job." In the end, feeling it his duty to do so, since he was
a stockholder and certain his efforts would be appreciated, he communicated the
matter to the Standard's acting head.

"Mr. Jones," the acting head of the company addressed the stockholder with a
smile, "I sincerely thank you for the interest you have shown in the
maintenance of our efficiency. I appreciate the fact that, from your window,
Mr. Smith appears every bit as idle as you say.

"But from your window it is impossible for you to see what is going on inside
of Mr. Smith's head. My experience with Mr. Smith has been such that I know it
would be highly profitable to this company to hire a dozen other similar Smiths
if we could get them—pay them similarly large salaries to stand with their
hands in their pockets, looking out of their windows—thinking thoughts as
valuable as those which Mr. Smith thinks and crystallizes."

Thought as a Business Force

The reply of the acting head was both good business and good psychology. The
great storehouse of impressions, however received, is the subconscious. Within
its mystic chambers are packed all our yesterdays. In the rearranging of these
subconscious thought materials lies the possibility of a new and effective
combination, the bringing forth of original conceptions. This usually is the
fruit of musing and solitude. The brilliant schemes of Cecil Rhodes were in the
main developed during morning rides over the mountains in South Africa. Riding
alone across the deserted slopes, with the stupendous works of nature frowning
down upon him, Rhodes was able to commune with himself in peace. He recognized
what many a harassed executive has not yet grasped, the supreme value of an
idea well matured.

The brilliant minds which for centuries found in philosophy, literature, or
science the intellectual element they craved are to be from now on in steadily
increasing numbers attracted by the business career. For business does afford
scope for the fertile intellect, and the view, long current, that the business
man was merely a diligent worker who at best plodded through the day's routine
without a comprehensive system, with neither imagination nor a constructive
mind, must accordingly give way to the conception of the executive as creative
thinker.

The drudge may fret and tinker,

Or labor with lusty blows,
But back of him stands the thinker,

The clear-eyed man who knows.
Might of the roaring boiler,

Force of the engine's thrust,
Strength of the sweating toiler,

Greatly in thee we trust.
But back of them stands the schemer,

The thinker who drives things through,
Back of the job—the dreamer,

Who's making the dream come true.

—Berton Braley.

Exercises

Intelligent Observation

The efficient man by no means goes about open-eyed, staring at everything, but
he does observe, and observe intently, the things that concern him.

The way profits are made in your particular field vitally concerns you. In
working through the exercise which follows, you will secure some good
suggestions and improve your power to observe in places where observation is
well worth your while.

List on Chart 12 twenty instances in which profits appealing to you as entirely
satisfactory were made. Confine this list of course to your own vocation. In
compiling it you may consult daily papers, trade papers, your associates, or
any other source of information applicable in your particular occupation, and
the full list need not be secured at once. Simply keep alert to how profits are
being made in your field and the list after a time will be completed. Do not
fill out the third column until after the list of specific instances has been
compiled, since its purpose is to yield you certain general principles
illustrated in the concrete instances.

Keeping the Mind Alert and Active

1. Are you careful to see that your mind is in the main stream of ideas, where
it can be continually stimulated?

"When I want to discover something," says Thomas A. Edison, "I begin by reading
up everything that has been done along that line in the past. I see what has
been accomplished at great labor and expense in the past. I gather the data of
many thousands of experiments as a starting point, and then I make thousands
more."

In other words, Mr. Edison in evolving those new projects which have made him
world-famous as an inventor nourishes his mind in the accumulated experience of
other men. He does not go it alone, a hermit shut away in some remote cave.

2. Are you open-minded, ready to receive a good idea from whatever source it
may come?

"There is a principle which is a bar against information, which is proof
against all arguments, and which cannot fail to keep a man in everlasting
ignorance," says Herbert Spencer; "this principle is contempt prior to
examination."

3. Do you talk with men who stimulate you?

The ideas upon which John Jacob Astor laid the foundations of his great fortune
were gained from an American furrier with whom as an immigrant he talked on
shipboard.

The young executive will find talking with bigger men than he a continual
stimulus and source of inspiration. Join a trade club or engineers' club where
men of affairs gather—be a good listener and a pertinent questioner. Absorb
ideas relating to your job and never miss an opportunity to study and
understand the men higher up in your own concern.

4. Do you read the trade papers—and books?

The story of Astor's career as written in Irving's "Astoria" fired the
imagination of a steamship clerk, James J. Hill, and the boundless stretch of
fertile and untilled land in the northwest became his life theme.

5. Do you use an idea file?

The philosopher Hobbes took his own intellectual processes with all
seriousness. "He walked much," says his friend Aubrey, "and contemplated and he
had in the head of his staffe a pen and inke home, carried always a note-book
in his pocket, and as soon as a thought darted, he presently entered it into
his book, or otherwise he might perhaps have lost it."

President Patterson of the National Cash Register Company is in this respect a
worthy follower of Hobbes. His brain works day and night—and he sees to it that
its ideas do not escape him. Even at his bedside he has a pencil and pad to
which he commits ideas the instant they enter his head. Every morning he
dictates to a secretary dozens of orders to be transmitted to the various heads
of departments.

"All the great orators of the world have planned out their creation to the
smallest details," says Clarence M. Woolley, President of the American Radiator
Company, "all great achievements have first existed in the mind of some man."
One of these great achievements may germinate within your mind today. Welcome
it. Jot it down, dictate it in a memo to yourself, file it; by all means do not
let that idea escape for it is stuff out of which profits are made.

6. Do you meditate upon what you have heard and read?

Each person is unique, with a life purpose all his own; and an

[table]

Test Chart 12. How Profits are Being Made in My Field

idea from outside is not really his and ready to meet his needs until it has
passed through the crucible of his own thought. Meditation accomplishes this.
Such meditation is purposeful, not the mere wondering about what may happen,
over which so much time is consumed. "Our most useful cogitations are not pure
reveries, absolute driftings," says James, "but revolve about some central
interest or topic to which most of the images are relevant, and toward which we
return promptly after occasional digressions." This constitutes fruitful
thinking.

7. Are you giving to creative work the time it justly deserves?

Ideas are intangible, and in an age of machinery and materialism their
significance is, no doubt, obscured. Yet ideas are true assets, the real basis
of profit, and they can be produced systematically.

These questions open the way to profits with a realness which unless you fill
out Test Chart 12 you cannot appreciate.

This exercise provides you certain general principles and concrete suggestions
which will increase your own profit-making power. Does it not convince you that
conspicuous gains are associated with new enterprises and new methods?

CHAPTER XII

THE FEASIBLE PROJECT

It is surprising how many bright business men go into important undertakings
with little or no study of the controlling conditions they risk their all upon.
—John D. Rockefeller.

The Commercial Instinct

The man of creative ability, the possessor of initiative and vision as these
qualities have been discussed in the preceding chapter, runs the risk of
becoming so captivated by the ideas which flash through his brain that he
develops nothing systematically. A creature of enthusiasm, he perhaps lacks
practical sense and, in the more pronounced cases, while in want himself, sees
the fruits of his inventions enrich the more prosaic but better balanced men by
whom these inventions were commercialized.

Such a man was Charles Goodyear, an inventor who believed in the then useless
india-rubber as a saint believes in heaven. His friends regarded him as a
monomaniac. In spite of poverty, family sickness, loss of friends, ridicule,
and a series of disastrous experiments, he kept on for years testing different
methods of manufacture, even dressing himself in clothes made of his samples in
the hope of proving its durability and of securing some advertising. He was
certainly an odd figure and in his appearance quite justified the remark of one
of his friends who, upon being asked how Mr. Goodyear could be recognized,
replied: "If you see a man with an india-rubber coat on, india-rubber shoes, an
india-rubber cap, and in his pocket an india-rubber purse, with not a cent in
it, that is Goodyear."

After having firmly established the merits of india-rubber, he was still too
thoroughly an inventor and too little the man of business to protect himself
from schemers who plundered him of the profits of his invention. The United
States Commissioner of Patents, in 1858, thus spoke of his losses:

"No inventor, probably, has ever been so harassed, so trampled upon, so
plundered by that sordid and licentious class of infringers known in the
parlance of the world, with no exaggeration of phrase, as 'pirates.' The
spoliation of their incessant guerrilla warfare upon his defenceless rights
has, unquestionably, amounted to millions."

Notwithstanding the epoch-making character of his invention, which brought
millions to others, Goodyear himself died insolvent and left his family heavily
in debt.

The long career of Thomas A. Edison, on the other hand, so richly and variously
productive, is evidence of what can be achieved when originality is directed by
the sense of what is practical. An experience of his suggests the value of the
early "hard knock" which earnest men have so frequently turned to good account.

Mr. Edison's first invention was a device for registering votes promptly and
automatically; each legislator had only to press a button and in a flash the
final result "Aye" and "No" was set forth. The proud young inventor
demonstrated the machine before a committee of the National House, in the full
expectation that its merit would at once be appreciated.

An experienced legislator with two sentences dismissed the device over which
the young man had toiled for months: "Young man, if there is any invention on
earth that we don't want down here, it is this. One of the biggest weapons in
the hands of a minority to prevent bad legislation is filibustering on votes,
and this instrument would prevent it."

The idea was unique, but not wanted.

Edison and Commercial Availability

A man less shrewd might have raved against "the unappreciative public," but not
Edison. On the contrary, he made the decision upon which his later remarkable
achievements in large measure depend, viz., his inventive faculties henceforth
were to be devoted only to things for which there was a genuine demand.

"The point in which I am different from most inventors," said Mr. Edison not
long since, "is that I have, besides the usual inventor's make-up, the bump of
practicality as a sort of appendix, the sense of the business or money value of
an invention. Oh, no, I didn't have it naturally. It was pounded into me by
some pretty hard knocks. Most inventors who have an idea never stop to think
whether their invention will be salable when they get it made. Unless a man has
plenty of money to throw away, he will find that making inventions is about the
costliest amusement he can find. Commercial availability is the first thing to
consider."

Reflection Performs an Essential Service

Success in the conduct of business requires sound, cautious judgment. No man
can get on, of course, without alertness of mind, the power to think of things
to do. But there is no man who can carry the responsibility of building a
business, or directing the work of other men unless he has a shrewd sense of
what it is safe, wise, and profitable to do.

The man of phenomenal creative power, therefore, requires an extremely heavy
balance wheel. Such a balance wheel, the machine of analysis and trained
judgment, is reflection. Under its control the native impulse to act upon
whatever idea may have captivated the mind is to some extent checked and thrown
back upon itself. Selective thinking ensues; in consequence of its searching
tests numberless ideas of inferior worth are sternly subordinated or weeded
entirely from the mind so that the most practical may hold sway.

Andrew Carnegie on Business Judgment

The business man might of course put all his ideas into operation as they were
first conceived and try them out by the test of actual experience. Experience,
though valuable, is proverbially a dear teacher, and her charge ought to be
anticipated rather than recklessly incurred in testing impracticable ideas.
Such ideas can no more produce profits than figs can grow upon thistles. Their
ultimate end is disaster, and the chief purpose of reflection is to restrict
such disaster to the mental world; to have done there with impractical ideas,
rather than have them externalized as costly mistakes in brick and mortar,
steel girders or long-term contracts.

"Those who fail may say that this or that man had great advantages, the fates
were propitious, the conditions were favorable to him. Now, there is very
little in this," declares Andrew Carnegie; "one man lands in the middle of a
stream which he tries to jump, and is swept away, and another tries the same
feat, and lands upon the other side.

"Examine these two men.

"You will find that the one who failed, lacked judgment; he had not trained
himself; could not jump; he took the chances. He was like the young lady who
was asked if she could play the violin; she said she 'did not know, she had
never tried.' Now, the other man who jumped the stream had carefully trained
himself; he knew about how far he could jump, and there was one thing 'dead
sure' with him. He knew he could, at any rate, jump and try again. He had shown
judgment."

Because among the numerous projects available it selects those most likely to
succeed, reflection constitutes a wonderful short-cut to results.

The "Sure Thing" Delusion

The selection of projects most likely to succeed, while essential, does not
satisfy the cupidity of the simple-minded expecting the discovery of a highly
profitable "sure thing." These persons are beset by a vain delusion. Changing
conditions in business, as every man who makes money sooner or later comes to
recognize, while they provide the profit-seeker with opportunity, afford him no
real guarantee that his ventures will prove successful. Should he take hold, he
incurs risk.

Since prices do fluctuate, what is easier than to buy low and sell high, and
thereby reap a fortune? Nothing, so runs the amateur's opinion. And he has no
difficulty in pointing out what would have been had he dealt in wheat or copper
or stocks. In actual practice, price changes prove difficult to forecast and
have entailed disaster incessantly to the unskilled operator.

Inventions have brought wealth to their respective inventors in only a very
small percentage of cases, while millions of dollars are squandered in the
promotion of devices which are complete failures from the business standpoint.
Neither do improved methods of production represent certain gain, since
continual outlays for experiment and installation are involved and competition
is thereby sharpened. Nor does the exploitation of natural resources guarantee
gain with no possibility of loss. In the more highly speculative ventures, such
as gold-mining, it is questionable if more wealth has not been wasted in
non-paying mines than has been secured from rich strikes.

The Risks of Business

In short, whatever be the source of profits utilized, risk characterizes every
business enterprise. "It is often a heartbreaking undertaking," observes John
D. Rockefeller, ''to convince men that the perfect occasion which would lead to
the perfect opportunity would never come even if they waited until the crack o'
doom." The wise executive recognizes risk as a factor which can never be
avoided and, instead of deceiving himself with the idea of a "sure thing," he
accepts each venture as a chance whose hazard is to be guarded against and
reduced by deliberate, systematic thought.

The existence of risk means nothing more than that certain essential factors
are shrouded in uncertainty. Its systematic reduction calls for a mind able to
carve its way into this maze and lay bare the factors at issue.

This power and the habit of anaylsis was developed to a high degree in Abraham
Lincoln and its possession was undoubtedly the chief cause of his astonishing
advancement.

His mind (we are told by W. H. Herndon, who was for many years Lincoln's law
partner) ran back behind facts, principles, and all things to their origin and
first cause to that point where forces act at once as effect and cause. He
would stop in the street and analyze a machine. Clocks, omnibuses, languages,
paddle-wheels, and idioms never escaped his observation and analysis. Before he
could form an idea of anything, before he would express his opinion on a
subject, he must know its origin and history in substance and quality, in
magnitude and gravity. He must know it inside and outside, upside and downside.
He was remorseless in his analysis of facts and principles. When all these
exhaustive processes had been gone through with he could form an idea and
express it; but no sooner. He had no faith in, and no respect for, say-so's,
come though they might from tradition or authority. Thus everything had to run
through the crucible, and be tested by the fires of his analytic mind; and when
at last he did speak, his utterances rang out with the clear and keen ring of
gold upon the counters of the understanding.

The Problem-Solving Type of Mind

This power which Lincoln cultivated so zealously of thinking things out
thoroughly, the average man perhaps envies, yet seldom will he subject himself
to the discipline required for making it his own. Although popularly termed
thinking animals, hardly any of us really like to think; whenever possible we
all dodge the task. Nevertheless, the guidance of the large-scale modern
enterprise raises problems which only persistent thought can solve and it is to
be noticed that the executives who under the new regime advance themselves into
captaincies of industry have not dodged the task. These men in business exhibit
the same problem-solving type of mind as did Lincoln in politics.

In his thirst for information, E. H. Harriman dug deep into the inner workings
of his railroads, studied rates, towns, territories, bridges, locomotives,
rails, ties, and men. Charles Mellen, when unexpectedly appointed railroad
superintendent, proceeded to make his home in the switchyards, baggage cars,
and roundhouses, counseling with switchmen, trainmen, engineers, firemen, and
roundhouse foremen, and in general putting in eighteen to twenty hours'
intensive study daily. So insatiable in analyzing the Great Northern's
prospects was James J. Hill that his knowledge of its territory became almost
that of a stage-driver. While other men were regarding the idea of a
transcontinental railroad as entirely chimerical, Collis P. Huntington proposed
that a definite survey be made, and supplied a large portion of the funds
required. When Grover Cleveland accepted the trusteeship of the reorganized
Equitable Life Assurance Society he studied the matter in his thorough,
painstaking way until, as one of the young life insurance presidents used to
say, "the old man knew more about insurance than any of us." Convinced years
ago that science was to play an important role in steel-making, Charles Schwab
says: "In my own house I rigged up a laboratory and studied chemistry in the
evenings, determined that there should be nothing in the manufacture of steel
that I would not know. Although I had received no technical education,

I made myself master of chemistry and of the laboratory, which proved of
lasting value."

The Mastery of a Business

These men all possessed the problem-solving type of mind which, early utilized
in dealing with small matters, enables the business man to move with firm
confidence in large affairs. For the vagueness in which these large enterprises
at first appear enshrouded disappears upon analysis and there is revealed
instead a number of questions so specific that the mind cannot fail in due time
to assert its mastery over them.

"Forty years ago I was impressed with the value of analysis in business," says
John H. Hanan, the Brooklyn manufacturer, "and that hour was the beginning of
whatever success I have had."

The outstanding fact about the problem-solving mind is that it is invariably
the result of a considerable period of training and practice. A man can not
develop a sound judgment overnight, but he can in time develop it through
solving the actual problems of the small place, the limited job. The
subordinate position, in consequence, is not only a perfectly adequate place to
learn to handle the big enterprises; it is practically the only place.

Getting at the Essentials

Each problem the executive is called upon to solve constitutes a little world
in itself within whose labyrinths the reflecting mind could stay
interminably—running over the numberless phases of the question at issue,
seeking out fresh points of view, developing whole crops of new suggestions,
guessing, and comparing. The true executive invariably cuts short this
Hamlet-like process. With him the selection and survival of fit thoughts, the
elimination of the unfit, is vigorously attended to; he thinks with a purpose.

The following incident, chosen from many of its kind, in the career of Thomas
A. Edison well illustrates positive thought in operation. On this occasion Mr.
Edison had decided to study a certain part of the mechanism of typewriters.

"Have a model here next Tuesday of every typewriter made," he said to one of
his assistants. "Have each company send an expert to explain its machine. And
get me out all the books in the library about this piece of mechanism."

Monday evening the assistant called Mr. Edison's attention to a stack of books
several feet high, and reminded him of the appointment next day.

"Send the books up to the house. I'll look them over tonight," said Mr. Edison.

The next morning he appeared at the exhibition, and so thoroughly had he read
the books that he frequently corrected the experts' explanation of how their
own machines worked. The assistant, out of curiosity, tried reading the
references that Mr. Edison had absorbed in one evening, and it took all his
spare hours for eleven days.

Mr. Edison in his swift pace had cut straight to the mark. This method is
characteristic of men who do things; they push directly along the great
highways of thought.

Keeping the Right Road

In the business world, which to the beginner seems a maze and which is
sufficiently complex even to the officials of great and successful
corporations, the importance of distinguishing essentials from non-essentials
increases year by year. The ability to manage a business demands the
application to its problems of the same habits of thought which in the physical
and natural sciences have again and again demonstrated their effectiveness. In
other words, the business men advancing to the helm of affairs in this country
must be scientists—not that they must work in laboratories, but that they must
apply the method common to all branches of learning, the procedure of a
logically trained mind.

Amid phenomena mingled in endless diversity, as we find it in business, science
has for its aim the discovery of true relationships. Order and system normally
follow in its train however diverse may be the field, since the scientific
mind, immersed as it may be in apparently heterogeneous details, is alert in
detecting similarities and differences, in weighing the evidence for and
against any idea or statement which may present itself. Those items which are
not essential in a given case are eliminated and those which are actually of
importance are revealed.

In this process the scientific mind is first of all ever on its guard against
weaknesses within itself: indolence, prejudice, fear of looking unpleasant
facts in the face. All these are errors to which human nature in every age is
subject. "Men believe easily what they wish to believe," said the greatest man
of the greatest empire of antiquity, Julius Caesar.

Lord Bacon's Warning

Centuries afterward Lord Bacon elaborated the warning in his "Novum Organum."

The human understanding, when any proposition has been once laid down (either
from general admission and belief, or from the pleasure it affords), forces
everything else to add fresh support and confirmation; and although most cogent
and abundant instances may exist to the contrary, yet it either does not
observe or despises them, or gets rid of and rejects them by some distinction,
with violent and injurious prejudice, rather than sacrifice the authority of
its first conclusions. It is the peculiar and perpetual error of the human
understanding to be more moved and excited by affirmatives than negatives,
whereas it ought duly and regularly to be impartial; nay, in establishing any
true axiom the negative instance is the more powerful.

The human understanding resembles not a dry light, but admits a tincture of the
will and passions, which generate

their own system accordingly; for man always believes
more readily that which he prefers. He, therefore, rejects
difficulties for want of patience in investigation; sobriety, be-
cause it limits his hope; the depths of nature, from super-
stition; the light of experiment, from arrogance and pride,
lest his mind should appear to be occupied with common
and varying objects; paradoxes, from a fear of the opinion
of the vulgar; in short, his feelings imbue and corrupt his
understanding in innumerable and sometimes imperceptible
ways.

The Danger of Deceiving Oneself

The danger so impressively pointed out here is real. The inevitable
consequence, should one not take the proper steps to avoid it, is the
appearance of that most serious of all defects in the otherwise practical
man—self-deception.

"When a man's affairs are not going well, he hates to study the books and face
the truth," says Mr. Rockefeller in explaining his procedure. "From the first,
the men who managed the Standard Oil Company kept their books intelligently as
well as correctly. We knew how much we made and where we gained or lost. At
least, we tried not to deceive ourselves."

"Things and actions are what they are, and the consequences of them will be
what they will be; why then should we desire to be deceived?" asks Bishop
Butler. The victim of this ostrich-like ignoring of the facts is able to make
no satisfactory reply to the Bishop.

We as business men must recognize the warping effects upon the judgment both of
prejudice and of prepossessions, must seek to retain the open-mindedness with
which as children we were endowed, and yet, in fulfillment of the
responsibilities resting upon us, must investigate systematically and without
ceasing each problem which is ours to solve.

"Separate the problem from yourself; think of it as a fascinating episode that
happened years ago," is the advice of Dean Gay of the Harvard School of
Business Administration.

Procedure at the General Electric Plant

When the problem-solving type of mind faces some new problem, what, in general,
is its method of operation? The answer to this question, in terms familiar to
the business man, appears clearly in this incident which took place in the
shops of the General Electric Company. The manager of one of the departments
had observed the need for a new type of circuit breaker, as the breaker then in
use—an electrical switch consisting of a handle and three copper prongs fitting
into grooves —was not satisfactory. His procedure according to the account in
World's Work Was thus:

At eleven o'clock an idea occurred to him and by two in the morning he had
worked out three definite forms.

The next morning, he called in one of his assistants, explained his third form
to him, and told him not to report at the works again until he had made the
sketches that would put it in shape to be explained to the management. Two days
later the assistant brought in the sketches. The two men discussed them.
Changes had to be made. Two more trials were necessary before the sketches were
in shape to show to the technical director of the works.

Then the invention went through these steps; a conference with the sales
department to determine at what price the device must be sold to be successful;
an appropriation to cover the development of the device (working drawings and
models); the making of an original set of working drawings; discussion of the
drawings by the management and their approval; the making of a model by the
model shop; another conference on objections from the sales department to the
form of the device; tests of the model for practical work; the correction of
the defects shown by the model in practice; the correction of the drawings to
correspond to the revised model; the designing of models of the device in
different sizes: an appropriation for the manufacturing of the device in lots
of too for general sale; the drawing up and filing of an application for a
patent; the giving of instructions how to build it, from the engineering de

partment to the factory; the inventing and building of the
machinery necessary to manufacture the device in large lots;
and a test of the first product.

From the managers idea to the completion of the first
commercial sample took six months; and from the comple-
tion of the sample to the time when the device was being
manufactured in all sizes as a commercial product, took
two months more. To perfect the invention and carry it to
the point where the first lots were put on sale, cost the com-
pany $4,000.

The Systematic Elimination of Risk

The problem-solving type of mind faced with a newly created problem in general
concerns itself with:

1. Analysis; what are the factors at issue?

2. Evidence; what are the facts involved?

3. Experience; what results are shown in practice?

These three processes—analysis, the use of evidence, and the test of
practice—as evolvers of the practical idea proceed together, inextricably
interwoven. Their combined effect is the systematic elimination of risk.

How far shall the elimination of risk be pursued in the case of those stirring
new projects proffered us more or less continually by the creative impulse?
Since even to the most conservative, who in consequence must be satisfied with
the smallest of returns, the proposition 100 per cent certain continues to
exist as an ideal unrealized, the business man does not hesitate to accept a
certain degree of risk. His aim is simply the reduction of risk until, in
proportion to the chances for profit, it becomes reasonable; and the use of his
problemsolving machinery beyond that point represents unprofitable expenditure.

"The trained mind," as Professor Dewey points out, "is the one that best grasps
the degree of observation, forming of ideas, reasoning, and experimental
testing required in any special case, and that profits the most, in future
thinking, by mistakes made in the past."

Superior Reasoning Ability in Practice

Let us assume that the financing of three industrial enterprises, the
propositions similar in all essential respects, is laid before bankers A, B,
and C respectively. Under ideal conditions the investigation required would
cost $20,000; A, whose problem-solving machinery works at an efficiency of 90
per cent, spends $22,222, whereas B, whose similar efficiency is 80 per cent,
requires $25,000, and C, whose rating is but 50 per cent, needs $40,000. In
comparison with A, B is handicapped $2,222 and C $17,778. Or on the other hand,
supposing that the three expend the same amounts, B and C will still be
handicapped in that they will be assuming more serious risks than A.

The problem-solving type of mind, because of the superior effectiveness with
which it operates in this respect as compared with the average intelligence,
secures its possessor equal risk at less cost in time and effort or less risk
at equal cost.

Exercises

First Ideas

Ideas for the making of profits are continually occurring to you. Our exercise
concerns these. Make a list of the first ten such ideas as they come to your
mind entering them upon Test Chart 13. Do not examine them critically; in fact,
do not examine them at all, but simply make a note of each in order as they
appear until ten have been collected. Next put each through the tests outlined
in this chapter.

In their original form, do your ideas possess high or low chances of winning
you the profits desired?

The Sifting of Ideas

Men will differ in the percentages shown, the imaginative mind which tumbles
out projects ceaselessly showing naturally a higher mortality rate in its ideas
than the slower, more methodical thinker. What does this exercise reveal to you
regarding the relative importance for profit making of original ideas and the
means for

[table][merged small]

rendering them practical? Does your strength lie primarily in initiative or in
judgment?

Practical ideas, we may conclude, are those fitted to survive the struggle for
existence which takes place among the ideas evolved within the mind. They
represent at all times the result of a more or less persistent, oftentimes
laborious and painful, process of selection. This is necessarily so.

"Roasted pigeons don't fly into one's mouth," is the way Daniel Guggenheim,
President of the American Smelting and Refining Company, puts it. "You have to
find a pigeon, you have to be able to shoot him, then you must clean him and
roast him before you can eat him. So it is with business."

The severe death rate which prevails among the products of our creative impulse
is by no means peculiar to executives but holds true of all men producing ideas
at once original and practical. The business man loath to train his
problem-solving apparatus upon some idea with which he for the time being is
captivated, may ponder with profit, therefore, the words of the famous
scientist Michael Faraday: "The world little knows how many of the thoughts and
theories which have passed through the mind of a scientific investigator, have
been crushed in silence and secrecy by his own severe criticism and adverse
examination; that in the most successful instances not a tenth of the
suggestions, the hopes, the wishes, the preliminary conclusions have been
realized."

CHAPTER XIII

TESTS OF REASONING

We must not then add wings but rather lead and ballast to the understanding, to
prevent its jumping and flying.—Sir Francis Bacon.

Exact Knowledge Needed

"Modern scientific management," says Vice-President Peck of the Link Belt
Company, "is exactly what the name implies —management based on knowledge—on
ascertained facts rather than on opinions, however brilliant, of workman,
foreman, superintendent, or manager." The last word has the significance. The
wise executive, while relying ultimately on his own judgment, checks up his own
opinion by the opinions of others who approach the problem from different
angles. But more than opinion he seeks information, definite and clear
statements of observed facts bearing on the case in hand.

Sources of Information

Where is such information to be derived? Where not? Reports of every
description come to hand, from within the organization and from outside.
Information comes through visits of inspection and investigation; through
conferences both official and informal; through correspondence, official and
personal; through reading of trade papers, government publications, and books.

The range of persons concerned in providing information for the executive is
equally great. It includes his fellow officers. It includes his subordinates of
all ranks, who are perhaps nearest to actual conditions. . Then there are the
official investigators and examiners—the auditor, the field

investigators, the lengthening list of specialists: statisticians, chemists,
cost experts, etc. Finally, in the case of most shrewd and successful
executives, there are counselors on the outside whom he calls in when
necessary.

Testing the Evidence

The information which these several sources focus upon the executive's desk
varies widely in value. Part of it is truth itself, part the beliefs of
misguided yet sincere persons, part the work of deliberate falsifiers. The
testimony must be subjected to searching criticism before final acceptance.

Criticism, analysis, is the necessary complement of imagination. Imagination
sees the whole in the part—the finished work in the specimen. It says: What I
have seen leads me to believe that the whole enterprise (or article) will be
valuable, sound, profitable, etc., providing the portions yet to be filled in
are up to certain standards of execution, etc. Analysis makes sure that the
parts are all filled in and that they are up to specifications. It takes an
inventory. It cross-examines the new plan. It goes over every item of the
proposition and tests it out sternly, making no allowances, assuming—in order
to be safe—that what is not present perhaps is wrong, unfavorable, hostile.

How can we test our ideas, test that deliberately controlled sequence of ideas
which we call thinking? Chiefly by going over the steps of the process to see
whether we have made mistakes. This is the method which all of us use. The
scientist does the same things as the untrained man, only more carefully and
systematically. The untrained man rarely takes a trial balance of the evidence
for and against a certain view. He assumes as a matter of course that his
mental processes are accurate and sufficient and acts accordingly, whereas the
scientist tests his thought constantly, making sure of every step he takes.

Systematic and Accurate Procedure

When the untrained man does test his thought, moreover, he is apt to do it
unsystematically, whereas the scientist is careful to use orderly, even
procedure. Knowing the proneness of the mind to jump the track, the scientist
observes strictly the rules of the game while analyzing; he is careful to pin
down each idea in a set place and order.

But the most important difference is this—the scientist strikes for essentials
and thereby makes his analysis at once swifter and more accurate.

Analysis, criticism, is not mere faultfinding. Mere faultfinders are often
among the most easily deceived; they do not know where the weak spots are. When
the Twentieth Century stops at junction points in its wonderful run, trainmen
with torch and hammer go along tapping wheels and axles, here and there. It is
quickly done—just a light tap at a certain point. Untrained men, merely because
they do not know the critical points where the strain comes, might tap all over
the wheel yet miss the weak spot.

Analysis for the Executive

The system of analysis or critical method which the man in an executive
position is to use, if it is to secure him superior results, should have three
characteristics:

1. It should be reliable and accurate.

2. It should be generally applicable to all sorts of ideas,

problems, etc.

3. It should be simple and quick.

The man in an executive position is obliged to decide many different kinds of
questions. In most cases he cannot pretend to expert knowledge, since knowledge
in any line comes only after long, specialized study and experience. He has all
kinds of problems put up to him by his subordinates, all of whom are
individuals with divergent information and different viewpoints. It is
necessary, unless the business is to slump or the tenure of his job is to be
terminated, for him to give substantially the right answer to question after
question.

The executive faced with these various problems never forgets also that he is
in charge of a going concern, which means that decisions must be prompt. He is
in a very different position from that of the scientist in his laboratory, or
the judge in a court of law. The judge, for instance, has practically all the
time he wishes, and he has at hand a carefully selected and classified array of
the opinions of other judges on this point.

The executive needs, in order to make headway, a reliable working apparatus for
testing ideas, proposals, and methods. If the plan passes this scrutiny, and if
it is important in any way, it may then be tested more deliberately by the
persons of special knowledge who are familiar with the case.

What Does the Idea Mean?

The first step in testing an idea, method, or proposal, is to see what it
means. Express it in terms of your habitual activity so that you are sure of
just what is implied by every part of it.

This would seem a matter of course, and yet hardly any step is more neglected
in common life. The lawyer scrutinizes at once the language of the statute, or
the contract on which his case depends. The chemist proceeds at once to an
analysis of elements in the specimen placed in his hands. But the "busy"
executive often jumps at the meaning of a proposal without translating it with
any definiteness into the terms of his actual business life. A large proportion
of the difficulties and misunderstandings which the executive has to adjust
come from neglect on someone's part to grasp the exact significance of a
proposal, or order, or explanation. It is as if a purchasing agent were to
order goods on every requisition placed in his hands without troubling himself
to see whether they are already in the stores department. The fact is that many
proposals, improved methods, etc., reveal their futility at once when we grasp
their plain meaning.

The psychologists call this part of the testing process "definition of terms."
The phrase is useful if we keep in mind that we are concerned here not with
words but with ideas. Lincoln was particularly good at this, and it contributed
largely to his success. A man who sees clearly the object which is held before
his eyes knows at once, in most cases, whether or not he likes it. So when a
person comprehends what a proposed business plan implies he can generally
decide at once whether it is worth investigating. Time and care spent at this
point will invariably save time and effort later on. Furthermore, it is the
necessary basis for other tests.

When the Government's coal order came in the winter of 1918, stopping work on
Mondays, the suggestion was made to lengthen the working day for the rest of
the week to an equivalent extent. The office manager had to consider various
items before he understood the meaning of that proposal. It would involve
altered arrangements for light and heat, janitor and elevator service, and the
making of new shipping and mailing schedules, etc. It would involve also the
difficulties, real and fancied, which employees might have in adjusting
themselves to the changed hours. When he knew what the proposal really meant,
for his business, he was prepared to consider its value.

Competence of the Witness

Once we know what an idea means the next question is usually: Who brings it up?
Merchandising plans suggested by the advertising manager of Wanamaker's will
arrest the attention of any merchant. The fact that a plan brings an
introduction from a good source does not prove that we should accept it, but it
is warrant for admitting it to the waiting room for closer scrutiny.

In estimating the credibility of a witness we consider mainly:

1. His General Intelligence and Standing. A matter brought up by a trusted
official of the company has the presumption of an attentive and favorable
hearing—so with one brought up by an old customer in good standing, or the
representative of a well-known firm, even though there have been no previous
dealings with him.

2. His Knowledge of the Particular Case in Hand. The opinion of an expert on
his specialty—of the head bookkeeper regarding ledger systems, the janitor
regarding ventilation, cleaning, etc., the clerks in the mailing department
regarding stamping or letter-opening machines—merits always careful
consideration.

3. His Freedom from Bias. This is a necessary check on the preceding test; the
expert is usually more or less swayed by prejudice regarding his specialty. One
who is "on record" with regard to a particular matter is not often entirely
open-minded in his attitude.

4. His Honesty; Hozv Far He is Swayed by Self-interest. This test is constantly
in use by the man in an executive position. Most of the proposals of all sorts
which come before him are some way bound up with intentions of profit for
someone. He must decide how far the statement or the conduct of a person
concerned is to be taken as sincere; to be relied on. Often the expert, of even
high intelligence, must lie under suspicion because of the possibility of
self-interest.

The Idea Itself

1. Its Apparent Reasonableness. A third test considers the idea by itself. Does
it—for one thing—appear consistent Avith welj-established experience; with
other known facts in

the case; with itself? As a rule this test, like the preceding, gives only
presumption. Nearly every original idea seems more or less unreasonable,
inconsistent, at first sight. Nevertheless, the test is of great practical
usefulness, in warning us to be cautious as to further investigation. Sometimes
it is decisive, revealing fatal dishonesty or error. The lawyers use it
constantly in this way. On one occasion Lincoln was defending a man charged
with murder—the Grayson case. He obtained from the chief witness for the
prosecution the sworn statement that he had himself seen the shooting by the
light of the moon. Then Lincoln proved from an almanac that there was no moon
on the night in question.

2. Its Importance. This test of the importance of an idea is used constantly by
every man in practical life. Supposing that a given statement is true or that a
suggested plan will work, what difference will it make on the whole? Is the
amount at stake in one or another way sufficient to justify possible
interference with other matters? Does it justify even further investigation?
Many a project, irreproachable but trivial, is shown the door at this point.

On the other hand, the executive with insight sometimes perceives a profoundly
important issue at stake in something which appears to be trivial—as Henry Ford
did in the case of the radiator cap. (See Chapter X.)

Correctness of the Process of Reasoning

Finally, we may test the reasoning, the accuracy that is to say, of the process
by which one thought leads to another. This is the most certain, but the most
difficult way of testing.

Reasoning consists of a series or chain of judgments. You know—or believe—that
a certain thing is true. You discover that that thing depends upon another so
closely that if the first is true the second must be equally true. This in its
turn you discover depends with equal closeness upon a third. You accept the
third accordingly as equally true, and so on.

Psychologists and lawyers, who must do their work thoroughly, have carefully
worked out and classified the more frequent defects of reasoning, the ways in
which we may be deceived in passing from one judgment to another, and have
indicated convenient methods of detecting these errors. The difficulty is that
these classifications made by psychologists and logicians for their own use are
far too detailed and complicated for the busy executive. They are to be used by
specialists. We may simplify these "rules," "tests," "canons," etc., applied to
the process of reasoning somewhat as follows:

When we seek to test the soundness of any argument, any process of reasoning
whatever, we should apply to it the following three questions in as much detail
as seems necessary.

Correctness of Premises

1. Are the "premises," that is, the successive statements as to fact, accurate,
correct? This is really applying to the single statements the test applied
above to the whole idea. Often errors are discovered at this point. Take for
example the argument:

Interference with another man's business is illegal.
Underselling interferes with another man's business.
Therefore bargain sales are illegal.

Here, as a little reflection shows, the term "interference with another man's
business" is used in two different senses in the first and second statements.

Incorrect Sequence—Analogy

2. Do the premises really lead to the conclusion offered? Under this come at
least two possible cases:

(a) Is the apparent connection of premises with con

clusion merely accidental; for instance, is the relation of premises and
conclusion merely one of analogy?

The following instance seems - so extravagant as to be quite improbable, yet we
have all known apparently sensible persons to reason just as hastily:

"I positively refuse to employ any cashier in this bank who wears rubber
heels," declared the president of a fairly prominent bank. "Such a man is
dishonest."

It was found that a former cashier, who wore rubber heels, had absconded with
funds sufficient to entail a heavy loss upon the institution.

In advocating business plans the temptation to use analogy is constant. It is
not always so easily detected as in the following from a prospectus:

"The history of the Standard Oil Company is known by everybody from Maine to
California," announces a promoter, with much truth. "It is the greatest
money-making industry in the world. The X Y Z Company does not expect to
achieve such great financial success as the Standard Oil Company, but it is in
the same line of business—refining—and therefore its stock should be purchased
for the very great profits that seem to be assured for those who invest now in
its treasury stock."

Of course the fact that one oil company has succeeded is by no means proof
positive that another will do so.

Incorrect Sequence—Evidence Not Sufficient

The second case under this head is even more troublesome:

(b) Is the inference of conclusion from premises based

upon too few instances, or upon those which are not representative?

This is one of the chief causes of faulty reasoning in life and in business. It
is important but often difficult to recollect that one swallow does not make a
summer. The apparent success of a plan in a few cases, of which we have heard,
cannot safely be taken as conclusive. In important matters a decision should be
based on instances which are sufficient. The following is from an advertisement
of a school of advertising:

Walter McMillan will serve as a good illustration of a young man who "woke up."
He was employed as a clerk by the Armour Packing Company of Kansas City, with
nothing in prospect but the desk with its endless drudgery. He read the signs
correctly, and after careful investigation decided that the Carlton Zollege of
Advertising could give him the thorough, practical advertising education he
craved. Almost immediately after completing the course he was referred by the
college to the Kansas City Journal, where he started at just four times the
salary he was receiving in his former position. He is there today and has been
still further advanced. What Mr. McMillan has done you can do.

Interesting but not conclusive. The formula "clerk+ Carlton College of
Advertising course=newspaper position +4 times former salary" is far from
universal.

An engineering company constructing a large power-plant dam was investigating
the local rainfall and flood conditions. All the records for 18 years back
showed moderate, even rainfall and no floods. But the investigators were not
satisfied; they went back further yet; and they found that for the preceding
18-year period the records showed heavy rains and repeated floods.

In all matters upon which statistics are supposed to be the final authority it
is well to note whether or not these statistics cover sufficient cases to
justify the conclusions drawn from them. The police reports in a certain
Massachusetts town showed that its Turkish population was criminal to the
astonishing degree of 300 per cent! Inquiry elicited the fact, however, that
said Turkish population consisted of one man, who had been jailed for
drunkenness three times! Errors of this nature have been responsible for the
famous remark that there were three grades of liars; plain liars, d—d liars,
and statisticians!

Factors Overlooked

3. Have other and presumably important factors in the case been left out of
consideration?

This is the most frequent and most troublesome error for the business
executive. The question he has to decide concerns the future—is it probable
that such and such an action will be on the whole beneficial, profitable? Where
human action is involved the factors are many and variable.

"The winter before our ventilation system was installed," so runs the
advertisement of a well-known manufacturer, "in this insurance company 27^ per
cent of the employees were absent owing to illness; the installation of our
system the next winter cut this down to 7^ per cent."

Not proved. Perhaps a mild winter, or the absence of epidemics, or the
engagement of a company physician, or the installation of a different heating
system, etc., may have been even more responsible than the ventilation system
for this decrease from 27^2 to 7J/2 per cent.

This example could be paralleled no doubt in the daily experience of almost
every executive. The prudent man learns to look on all sides of a proposal
before he lets his mind come to a final conclusion.

Validity of These Tests

This system described, we must repeat, consists merely in applying more
deliberately and systematically the same sort of tests which we all apply in
matters of daily life; whether or not to carry an overcoat this morning,
whether to take this road or that, on a drive. In most of these little personal

matters our mental action is so swift as to be practically automatic—they are
attended to by the lower nerve centers, as explained in Chapter X—yet if we
check up our actions we find that we are really applying these tests of
thinking one by one, until we are satisfied.

The same tests expressed in more formal, complete, lengthy terms constitute a
very important part of the subject matter of psychology and logic, the sciences
which deal especially with the way the human mind works. These tests accurately
and systematically applied—whether the statement of them be elaborate or
brief—will guide us safely in estimating business methods and projects. In
fact, there are no other tests for careful human thinking.

Exerc1ses

Problems in Analysis

As an exercise for developing the judgment let us consider certain problems in
analysis. In the process of analysis, similarities and differences are detected
and upon these as a basis classifications are made. Study the following rules,
noting, of course, the errors used for purpose of illustration and preparing
answers to the questions:

1. Every division is based upon differences in some attribute common to all the
members of the whole to be divided. In classifying businesses as individual
proprietorships, partnerships, or corporations, what has been taken as the
common attribute? A statistical company recently issued a circular in which
industrial stocks were referred to as coppers, leathers, oils, steels, motors,
and marines. What was the basis of classification here chosen?

2. Each division in order to be consistent must rest upon one common attribute.
Should businesses be classified as individual proprietorships, partnerships,
and monopolies, what is the basis of classification taken for the first two?
for the third?

3. The various groups must be mutually exclusive. A young employment manager in
his report was found to have classified the factory's employees into
administrative, machine shop, foundry, assembly, and Austrians. In another
instance the purchasing agent referred to belting, oil, copper, and metals.
What fallacies were involved? How would you have avoided them?

4. The division must be complete, so that the various groups when combined will
equal the whole. A merchant estimated his rent, salaries, spoiled merchandise,
and bad accounts as totaling 16 per cent and, since a profit of 20 per cent was
desired, marked his goods at an advance of 36 per cent. In what respect was
this figure fallacious?

Let us now apply our tests concerning evidence to certain examples which have
been drawn from the current newspapers and magazines. These examples have been
stripped of all non-essential matter in order that the fallacies—that is, the
errors in reasoning—may be more readily exposed. Since as a usual thing
fallacies are imbedded in the midst of long statements and much perfectly good
reasoning, you will find it helpful likewise to reduce questionable arguments
to their barest outlines. What, boiled down to its essence, does this speaker
or this article claim?

Lack of ideas is fatal to business success.
This efficiency expert has many ideas.

Therefore you should not oppose the policies he advocates.

Whatever harms people should be avoided.

A tariff on steel girders harms building contractors.

Therefore the protective tariff should be avoided.

Bankruptcy is proof that wrong procedure was followed.
Jones is a bankrupt.

Therefore to succeed do just the opposite to what Jones advises.
Lawsuits should be avoided.

Collecting this bill from Smith involves a lawsuit.
Therefore this bill should not be collected.

A federal Bureau of Business Practice we declare would be unconstitutional.

Things which are unconstitutional cannot become law.
Therefore you should oppose a bill authorizing such bureau.

War is a dreadful thing.

Johnson discharged his employees who joined the militia.
Therefore Johnson is a true humanitarian.

The best accountant I ever employed had red hair.
This accountant has red hair.
Therefore I shall engage him.

Our advertising manager expected sales to exceed $150,000 per week.
They have not passed beyond $125,000.
Therefore he should be discharged.

Mill's Five Canons

The famous writer on political economy, John Stuart Mill, in his "System of
Logic," has formulated five "canons" or rules for the discovery of "causal
relations." The business man who masters these five canons, utilizing the
illustrations given herewith, will find that he has definitely gained in his
power of getting at the essentials.

First Canon, the Method of Agreement. "If two or more instances of the
phenomenon under investigation have only one circumstance in common, the
circumstance in which alone the instances agree, is the cause (or effect), of
the given phenomenon."

An example of this method often cited by logicians is the experiment carried on
by Sir David Brewster in his attempt to find the cause for the colors seen upon
mother-of-pearl. These were quite naturally supposed to be due to the chemical
or physical nature of the substance itself, but Sir David, happening to take an
impression of the mother-of-pearl in wax, found that although the substances
were entirely different the colors were exactly the same. He next took
impressions in balsam, gum-arabic, resin, etc., and afterwards marked a metal
surface with very fine, close grooves, in every case producing the same
iridescent colors found with mother-of-pearl. The form of the surface,
therefore, which had been the only factor remaining the same throughout, and
not the chemical or physical composition, which had varied in each case, was by
the method of agreement very properly concluded to be the cause sought.

Second Canon, the Method of Difference. "It an instance in which the phenomenon
under investigation occurs and an instance in which it does not occur, have
every circumstance in common save one, that one occurring only in the former;
the circumstance in which alone the two instances differ is the effect, or the
cause, or an indispensable part of the cause of the phenomenon."

This is the method of experiment and its utility, as Jevons points out, depends
mainly upon the precaution of varying one circumstance only at a time, all
other circumstances being maintained just as they were.

The instance of the star salesman who protested against being charged with any
advertising expense whatever, claiming that the sales were not due to
advertising influence but to his own ability, illustrates very nicely the use
of this canon.

"Very well," returned the sales manager, "you are to have Ohio as your
territory then, on your old commission. We have not as yet advertised there and
shall not, now that it is to be your territory."

The salesman, well pleased with himself, sallied forth to conquer the Ohio
territory. But business proved hard to get, with commissions as a consequence
small, and, although for six weeks he marched and countermarched across various
sections of that territory, in the end he returned thoroughly beaten to
headquarters. Advertising, he was convinced, did help him on the firing line.

The full validity of this proof concerning the influence of advertising
obviously depends upon its being the only circumstance which varied. This
searching question is to be borne in mind, therefore, in securing accurate
results through the method of difference: Do other conditions remain unchanged?

Third Canon, the Joint Method of Agreement and Difference. "If two or more
instances in which the phenomenon occurs have only one circumstance in common,
while two or more instances in which it does not occur have nothing in common
save the absence of that circumstance; the circumstance in which alone the two
sets of instances differ, is the effect, or the cause, or an indispensable part
of the cause of the phenomenon."

What we have here is a double application of the method of agreement, first to
a number of instances where an effect is produced and secondly to a number of
quite different instances in which the effect is not produced.

A manufacturer, let us say, has experienced considerable trouble from
complaints concerning defective rear wheels in wagons which he placed on the
market. The foreman declares the difficulty is due to overloading in the wheat
regions; the works manager thinks possibly the relatively inexperienced
mechanics engaged in one department (Department B) following a strike may have
turned out some poor work which escaped detection; while the sales manager
gives it as his opinion that the dry climate in certain sections is
responsible. Complaints are tabulated from several sections as follows:

Complaint A: Broken wheel made by Dept. B—farm use—dry region.

Complaint B: Loose hub—made by Dept. B—lumber camp—damp region.

Complaint C: Defective bands—made by Dept. B—coal delivery— average climate.

Complaint D: Cracked spokes—made by Dept. B—dairy use—damp climate; etc., etc.

The returns concerning these various wagons reveal the fact that only one
circumstance is invariably present, "made in Dept. B." That this is the cause
sought is probable, but in order to render the conclusion still more definite,
it is decided to investigate negative instances, or in other words, cases in
which the wagons had proved entirely satisfactory. This reveals that the wagons
made by departments other than B are being used under widely varying conditions
of climate and load, and that uniformly they are giving satisfaction. This
information shows that where no complaints had been received one and only one
condition was invariably absent; viz., the work of Department B. This confirms
the previous investigation.

Fourth Canon, the Method of Concomitant Variations. "Whatever phenomenon varies
in any manner whenever another phenomenon varies in some particular manner, is
either a cause or an effect of that phenomenon or is connected with it through
some fact of causation."

The directors of a certain large baking concern in their deliberations at a
particular meeting not long since illustrated how this canon is applied. The
instance, it will be recognized, has been stated in much simpler terms than
actually existed for obviously no bakery's success is dependent upon three
factors alone. But otherwise the conditions remain unchanged. This was the
evidence placed before them:

Kansas City plant—run-down business. Coming of Supt. Smiths

improving business. Pittsburgh plant—high costs. Coming of Supt. Smith=
improving

business. Boston plant—factional quarrels. Coming of Supt. Smith=improv

ing business.

According to detailed records submitted by the firm's accountants it was clear
that the increasing week by week tenure of this particular executive and a
plant's gradual reaching of its standard in capacity and costs were in close
causal connection. The board proceeded to elect Superintendent Smith general
manager, and the same ability which enabled him to put plant after plant into
condition is now operating successfully in a wider field.

Inasmuch as business problems very frequently are characterized by change, it
is found convenient to utilize this method of detecting causes from the study
of concomitant variations.

Fifth Canon, the Method of Residues. "Subduct from any phenomenon such part as
is known by previous inductions to be the

tirely. These items, in short, concern the business too vitally to be left
subject to chance.

"In the game of business as-in the game on the diamond," declares John T.
Wolff, of the L. Wolff Manufacturing Company, with much truth, "it is the man
who keeps score on re

[ocr errors][merged small][merged small][merged small][merged small][merged
small][merged small][merged small][merged small]

Figure 23. The Elements of Costs

(Adapted from Nicholson'j "Cost Accounting—Theory and Practice" by permission

of the publishers.)

suits who follows most closely the progress and the profits of his work."

The problem of statistical control is (a) how to secure the needed data most
easily and quickly, and (b) how to utilize it with effectiveness in the
management of a business.

[table][graphic][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors]
[ocr errors][graphic][ocr errors][graphic][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors]
[ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr
errors][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors][table][ocr errors][table][merged
small][ocr errors]

The Securing of Statistical Data

The usual basis of control within a business consists of the original entries
made by clerks and workmen upon the various forms with which they have been
provided. In consequence, information concerning all phases of its activity
continually collects, as indicated by the diagram of Figure 24.

This diagram sets forth with fair accuracy a fact increasingly characteristic
of the large-scale enterprise—that its wage earners, clerks, salesmen,
correspondents, executives, etc., do much recording of their respective
accomplishments. While accountants often apply the term "unproductive" to those
engaged strictly in recording, and executives oftentimes assume this term to be
literally true, in the case of all record making such is not really the case;
an effective control is produced.

"A wise direction is of more avail than overwhelming numbers; sound strategy
than the most perfect organization," rightly declared Henry L. Gantt; "a wise
policy is of more avail than a large plant, good management than perfect
equipment."

Adequate Control at Reduced Cost

The value, indeed the necessity of control and the part which records play in
this control convince most business men that accounting cannot be safely
ignored. Nevertheless there are organizations so completely bound in "red tape"
that the energies of this staff, turned card-wise, exhibit a sorry showing
result-wise. Control can be purchased at too high a price. The problem here
faced is much the same as encountered in other phases of the business—how with
a minimum outlay for recording to secure maximum results in control.

The following, while they do not constitute an inclusive list, indicate methods
that work out well in practice.

1. Standardized forms.

2. Essential data.

1

3. Samples.

4. Up-to-date information.

5. Summarized reports.

6. Statistical analysis.

1. Standardized Forms

The proper allotment of space in the planning of a unit record form reduces
considerably the labor in making the original entries. (See Figure 25.) The
setting aside of specific space for specific facts secures increased ease in
the recording itself, with decreased liability of omitting pertinent data.

Data which controls the
filing

Data for sub-classification. Summaries and digests for quick reference.

Body Of The Report: This area to be more or less definitely broken up into
appropriate rectangular areas which, as blanks, will remind the reporter of
each element required in his report, and which, as records, will ensure speed
in the use of the form, by providing a uniform location for each class of
information.

Reserve Space: For suggestions, exceptional facts, matters difficult to
classify above, or any pertinent additional data not planned for in the
original layout.

Figure 25. General Layout of a Unit Record (Reproduced by permission from
Jones' "Administration of Industrial Enterprises.")

In addition to a standardized layout, it also increases the ease with which
forms are filled out if the spaces between horizontal rulings agree in width
with the regular typewriter spacings, and if these rulings are so arranged
underneath each other as to require the least movement of the typewriter
carriage right or left with each new line in order to follow the form's
indentation. Further standardization can well simplify the amount of writing
required in recording the information, the ideal form in this respect being one
in which f1gures or check words tell most of the story. Finally the use of
similar records by different departments can be so arranged that a single
record made with several carbon copies will suffice in place of the numerous
isolated and vexatious reports so frequently found.

2. Essential Data

In the securing and use of data, the nature and operating conditions of the
business are of primary importance. Brick making plants cannot without
extensive modification take over a department store's accounting system, nor
can metal working establishments use with satisfaction a system prescribed for
steam railways. Transactions in the case of any given business should be
recorded according to a system devised for it, since only in this way can the
collection of much useless information be eliminated while at the same time all
essential statistics are secured.

In case of doubt it is well to record rather more than less information, the
extra cost being regarded in the nature of insurance. At the same time a more
careful mapping out in advance of those essential factors concerning which
information is wanted would save much useless recording and in the experience
of most organizations would pay for its trouble manifold.

3. Samples

Certain activities of a business, such as purchasing, selling or check drawing,
must in every single instance be recorded. In other cases, however, complete
information concerning every item is not always required for purposes of
control. The business man usually decides from the Showing of a limited number
of samples what can be expected of an entire consignment of tin containers or
lead pencils or bolts of cloth.

The value of a sample depends upon the faithfulness with which it represents
the group. This value, the prime consideration in the use of samples, can be
somewhat more readily attained in practice by the use of the following simple
rules.

a. The group itself should be carefully and exactly defined.

b. In securing samples, every member of the group under consideration should
have practically the same chance of being included.

c. Should the arbitrary action of chance appear unsatisfactory, then fair
samples may be selected by other means.

d. The number of samples should be increased until successive tests show
sufficiently similar results.

4. Up-to-date Information

The compilation of the report requires time, which if prolonged too much
renders its data valuable chiefly for purposes of history. The executive,
however, since he wants not merely a record of what has been done but data upon
which to predict future performances, needs these reports promptly if he is to
use them with effectiveness. Such up-to-dateness can be secured by a time
schedule. Special reports, it is true, are not easily brought into line but the
time schedule can be adjusted satisfactorily for all regular reports, the
amount of leeway permitted being at the most only equivalent to the period
covered by the report. Regular monthly reports ought never to be over one month
late, weekly reports over a week late, daily reports over a day late, because
in moving down the streets of business the accountant, always several steps
behind the executive, must walk just as fast as if only one step behind.

5. Summarized Reports

The executive, whether he be at the head of a department or in charge of an
entire establishment, who tries to digest all the statistics which pertain to
his business will be overwhelmed. He should have summarized reports, these in
each case to be prepared from the viewpoint of his particular position.

An executive in a subordinate position needs to have a summary of the minor
details for which he is responsible. To the executive higher up the same
summary might be of little value because not broad enough in its scope. The
higher official wants the first summaries of details to be again summarized and
assembled in a form that covers the work for which he is responsible. The
president of the big manufacturing concern, who is concerned with only broad
results, wants comprehensive reports regarding the total of production, or
expense, or sales and collections. If the figures at the end of the line show
unsatisfactory results then the cause can be traced backwards and ascertained,
providing statistics are complete all along the line.

6. Statistical Analysis

The statistics collected from the various departments of a business and used
for purposes of control can with profit be analyzed in various ways. While a
discussion of this very broad subject is not possible here, the more common of
these analyses concern questions such as:

Have simple or weighted averages been employed? Which should have been
employed?

How were the items originally distributed? What is the average deviation? The
standard deviation?

What information can be gained by comparing average, median and mode of certain
items?

What classification of accounts do my books show? Are the items of this
classification accurate and adequate?

Are the balance sheet valuations sufficiently accurate? Have assets been
distinguished from expense items? How was the worth of good-will determined?
Has the proper rate for depreciation been determined and booked?

The man in an executive position, whatever the extent of his authority and
responsibility, must develop the habit of using with discrimination such
statistical reports as he can obtain.

"It is remarkable what an enormous amount can be saved in a business," declares
H. W. Hall, manager of Wellington and Wood, "when every detail, large or small,
is carefully watched through its medium of an efficient system."

Outside Conditions: Business Barometers

The statistical data drawn from inside an establishment are of decided
usefulness, yet in themselves alone they cannot supply the close control
desired. They must needs be supplemented. The executive after a time comes to
realize that this enterprise of his is moved by certain far-reaching outside
influences. Great periods of alternating prosperity and depression rock his
project as a cockle-shell upon the deep so that, direct its inside activities
as he will, he feels that his business future is in the grip of what to him
oftentimes are but vast, unseen forces.

"A man may be thoroughly upright," declares President Upham of the Consumers
Company, "of the highest personal character, and have had years of experience
in the very best lines of the undertaking which he represents; yet if he has
not the ability to discern those hidden influences which will operate for the
success or failure of his project, he is not a safe man as an associate."

The Cycles of Business

The value of this ability to discern the underlying forces of business becomes
more evident upon a brief examination of cycles which have occurred in the
past. These, even though indicated in a general way, convey an important truth.

The Annals Of Trade Summar1zed

Years

1814 A crisis. Resources had been wasted in the war

and erroneous policies in regard to foreign trade, taxation, and banking
development augmented the distress.

1815-17 A period of revival. The restrictions caused by the embargo and the war
were succeeded by an increased trade.

1818-19 Crisis. Radical changes encountered in fiscal and economic policies.

1819-37 An era of internal improvements, whose advance at times was halted, but
only temporarily.

1837-43 Crisis, followed by depression. The launching of numerous highly
speculative ventures together with vicious banking and currency measures
brought about a relapse.

1843-57 A period of remarkable growth and prosperity.

1857-59 Crisis, followed by depression. Financial disturbance was a
comparatively prominent feature.

1860-73 War demands stimulated industry, and close of war saw expansion
continuing with but slight reaction.

1873-78 Crisis of decided severity, followed by unprecedented depression.

1879-90 Trade revival, interrupted temporarily by panic of 1884, made general
progress.

1893-96 Crisis. Panic acute from May to October. 1893, and depression continued
with but slight revival to end of period.

1897-02 High tide of prosperity continued in general throughout country.

1903-04 Financial panic and mild industrial depression.

1905-06 Prosperity in business again reached high tide.

1907-08 Crisis. Severe financial panic followed by deep depression in trade.

1909-12 Moderate revival in business.

1913-14 Crisis. Depression developed into crisis upon outbreak of war and
business continued at low ebb into 1915.

1915-17 A period of unprecedented prosperity.

1918 Unsettled conditions and depression in some lines

due to drastic war regulations.

"In the real world of business," declares Professor Wesley C. Mitchell,
"affairs are always undergoing a cumulative change, always passing through some
phase of a business cycle into some other phase. Prosperity is relapsing into
depression, or becoming more intense, or breeding a crisis; a crisis is
degenerating into a panic, or subsiding into depression; depression is becoming
deeper, or merging into a revival of prosperity. In fact, if not in theory a
state of change in business conditions is the only 'normal' state."

The Study of Fundamentals

Is it possible, in view of the vast changes summarized in the above annals of
trade and in view of similar changes destined to come, for an executive who
thinks only in terms of "inside the factory" to succeed in a large way? It
cannot be. The narrow man will in due time see his business craft wrecked upon
some reef unknown to him, but known to and carefully charted by men more
broadly informed.

The man whose desire for business information is satisfied by a skimming of the
daily paper and listening to what chance acquaintances may say in reply to his
usual question of "How's business?" will not, needless to say, gain a knowledge
of the underlying foundations of business management. Their utilization calls
for something which the average business man does not always fancy, a patient
and critical investigation. Fundamental data must be studied.

A Preliminary Analysis

In approaching the consideration of fundamental data it is useful to view the
problems thus:

1. There is what may be called a regular cycle of business change passing
through four well-defined periods. The periods will vary, of course, in
relative length according to the general situation, but the order roughly is:

A period of prosperity

A period of decline

A period of depression

A period of improvement

The idea that prosperity or depression can be permanent, while theoretically
possible of conception, does not work out in practice. Hence the vital
importance of viewing business conditions in the way just stated as being
characterized by four periods and always in change. This, the dynamic and the
true point of view, indicates how business men are concerned both with
conditions today and conditions to be expected.

2. Each phase of the business cycle records its progress in fundamental
statistics, which furnish the student not only a clear idea of present
conditions but serve tolerably well as barometers of storms or fair weather
ahead.

These fundamental statistics have to do with a variety of items, a list far too
long to be discussed here. We may, however, notice a few of them, and the way
in which they are used to throw light upon business conditions. First of all
let us consider the data relating to the volume of business.

The Volume of Business—Bank Clearings

In the transaction of business it is estimated that checks are employed to a
degree exceeding ninety-five per cent. Since practically all these checks, in
turn, pass through clearing houses, where their totals are recorded, the volume
of bank clearings accurately mirrors the general state of trade. When times are
prosperous and business brisk, the amounts passing through the clearing houses
are relatively heavy; when opposite conditions prevail, fewer checks are drawn.
In the record of bank clearings accordingly the business man has a very good
barometer of present business conditions.

Bank clearings are reported by several financial journals, of which The
Commercial and Financial Chronicle and The Annalist, both published in New
York, are excellent. These journals also present comparative figures which make
possible a study of the trend for several years past.

Further Data on Volume of Business

In addition to bank clearings, the following sources of information also are
serviceable in estimating fluctuations in the volume of business.

Railroad Gross Earnings. The output of factories, the supplies of retailers,
and other products of industry are transported, to a very large degree, by the
railroads. Hence the amount of gross earnings indicates the volume of business,
and in addition shows the prospects which concerns dependent upon the roads for
orders, such as the equipment companies, have for securing contracts.

Number of Idle Cars. The use of this item as a source of information does not
differ essentially from the above; when cars are idle in large numbers rail
traffic is languishing and vice versa.

Output of Basic Commodities. The production of coal, copper, pig-iron, steel,
cotton, corn, and wheat constitutes items of great importance since these are
basic commodities whose fluctuations will be reflected a thousand times in
other businesses dependent upon them.

Shipments of Grain, Livestock, Cotton, etc. The market condition of such
commodities can be gathered from the reports published of the transactions
which take place daily.

Foreign Trade. This concerns three items, the volume of exports, the volume of
imports, and the trade balance.

Other Fundamental Statistics

Next in importance to the data regarding the volume of business are those which
relate to commodity prices, as shown both by market quotations for the
commodities themselves and by such "index numbers" as are published by Dun's
and by Bradstreet's.

A third group of data is that relating to currency statistics. Since money
plays an important role in business and is sensitive with respect to changes,
information concerning the conditions of the currency serves very well the
functions of a barometer. Items dealing with currency statistics are: money in
circulation, gold exports and imports, bank loans, bank deposits, surplus
reserve of banks, domestic and foreign exchange rates, and money rates.

A fourth group of data concerns profits and speculation. The profits currently
being attained are shown by two excellent sources; the earnings of the
railroads and the earnings of the United States Steel Corporation. The reports
of corporations engaged in mining, manufacturing, wholesaling, retailing, and
banking supplement these two sources, and the statistics issued weekly by Dun's
and Bradstreet's which show the extent of bankruptcy present the situation from
its opposite side.

The prospects of profits are indicated by certain items into which the element
of speculation enters more directly; the volume of transactions on the New York
Stock Exchange, the mileage of railroads under construction, the unfilled
orders of the United States Steel Corporation, the number of building permits
granted, the new security issues offered the public, etc.

The Choice of Barometers

The foregoing list of items already is somewhat long, yet shall we claim it is
at all complete?

In recent years various organizations have grown up devoted to the compilation
and interpretation of commercial statistics. The two organizations which have
done most to render the use of fundamental statistics popular among business
men, Babson's Statistical Organization and The Brookmire Economic Service, have
selected respectively the two following groups of items as comprising in their
opinion the essentials common to most businesses:

Babson's Classification

Mercantile Conditions

1. Immigration

2. New building

3. Failures

4. Bank clearings

Monetary Conditions

5. Commodity prices

6. Total foreign trade

7. Foreign money rates

8. Domestic money rates

Investment Conditions

9. Yield of leading crops

10. Idle cars

11. Political factors

12. Stock market conditions

Brookm Ire's Classification

Business Conditions

1. Bank clearings

2. Railroad earnings

3. Steel billets

4. U. S. steel orders

5. Pig-iron production and

prices

6. Commodity prices

7. Imports

8. New building

Banking Conditions

9. Reserves

10. Deposits

11. Rate of commercial paper

12. Percentage loans to de

posits

13. Percentage reserves to

loans

Stock Market Conditions

14. Average price thirty-two

stocks

The Sources of Statistics

These statistics are recorded with considerable completeness in trade journals,
and somewhat condensed in daily papers, commonly in their financial section.
The Financial and Commercial Chronicle and The Annalist publish weekly very
satisfactory compilations of most of the subjects listed by Babson and
Brookmire, and their data will suffice for the average needs.

The Interpretation of Fundamental Statistics

The problem thus becomes one of securing from these numerous and at times
conflicting statistics some connected account concerning the business cycle
prevailing at the time. The solution of this problem constitutes no small task.
Professor Wesley C. Mitchell says:

Every business cycle, strictly speaking, is a unique series of events and has a
unique explanation, because it is the outgrowth of a preceding series of
events, likewise unique. Further, the intellectual instruments of analysis are
unequal to the complex problem of handling simultaneous variations among a
large number of interrelated functions. . . .

Notwithstanding, much would be gained for the conduct of individual affairs and
the guidance of legislation could we single out from the maze of sequence among
business phenomena a few which are substantially uniform. For these sequences
could be used with a degree of confidence depending upon the regularity with
which they recur as guides in forecasting the immediate business future. They
could also serve as centers for organizing our knowledge concerning the
variable sequences, and as points of departure in search for new uniformities.
Such regular sequences would help us to break up the tangled mass of facts
presented by direct observation into coherent clusters.

The solution of the problem here presented has been worked out by the two
statistical organizations mentioned above in this way: Each has singled out
certain items regarded as significant, as per the lists already presented; and
each combines these items so as to exhibit general tendencies, Babson in the
form of a composite plot, Brookmire in the form of a business, a banking, a
stock graph. (See Figure 26, a and b.)

Significance of the Time Element

The items combined in this way picture excellently conditions prevailing in
business. But the two charts both present another fact of interest, which can
be pursued independently

in greater detail should one wish to do so, viz., varying fluctuations in point
of time.

While in general we say that the really serviceable barometers are those which
correlate most closely with our particular business, is it a matter of any
importance whether this month's statistics of bank clearings or commodity
prices or railroad earnings, let us say, correlate with the conditions of our
business more closely or less closely than the similar statistics of last year
would have done or of next year will do? In other words, does the time element
especially concern us?

[graphic]

Figure 26 (a). Babson's "Compositplot"

Statistics covering the various topics shown in the classification on page 265 
are presented by the Babson's Statistical Organisation in the manner shown.
(Reproduced

by permission.)

The various items specified as barometers, such as exports, railroad earnings,
immigration, business failures, all change as a period of prosperity fades into
a period of decline and finally into depression, or vice versa; but they do not
advance or recede simultaneously.

Bank clearings of a particular period were found correlated with commodity
prices to the degree indicated by the coefficient +.758; but the commodity
prices were found correlated more closely with the bank clearings of the
preceding

[graphic][merged small]

year, the coefficient being +.818. In case we wish to use one of these two sets
of data today as a basis upon which to reason what is likely to occur later in
regard to the other, it is evident that bank clearings and commodity prices are
by no means of equal efficacy in forecasting.

The items which tend to fluctuate first and thus serve to forecast changes
later to take place in other items are stock prices, the number of shares
traded in, bank clearings, new railroad mileage, and the percentage of business
failures.

Forecasting Made Possible by Statistical Knowledge

Systematic study of statistics, both regarding one's own business and the
business world in general, enables the executive to forecast the future, to
utilize the experience of today and yesterday as an indicator of what is to
occur tomorrow.

The gift of prophecy which in times past was presided over by a wonder-working
priesthood, is in our machine age shorn of its mystical attributes and put into
matter-of-fact service under the control of scientific method. The selfdeceived
man, the non-scientist, the man whose feelings, as Lord Bacon warns us, imbue
and corrupt his understanding in innumerable and sometimes imperceptible ways,
reads into the future his own prepossession, whereas the executive trained
rigorously in the logical processes of thought normally develops the
forecaster's type of mind. It is merely the proper course of reasoning to
proceed from the known to the unknown, from the evident to the obscure, from
the antecedents which are now seen to the consequents which are to be.

Wrong deductions will no doubt continue to be made, since business problems are
complex, the facts often difficult to secure, and human powers of analysis all
too limited. Yet the process of forecasting as it has been worked out is
intrinsically sound and upon it no limits can safely be drawn.

Exercises

Forecasting

The role of foresight in enabling a man to take advantage of business changes
is vital in its influence upon profits. The first exercise has for its aim the
testing of your ability to predetermine events. (See Test Chart 14.)

As you survey this card after the last event has been decided and in the cold
light of what has happened test your predictions of what was to happen, what is
your opinion of yourself as a forecaster?

Perhaps the average is low. Be that as it may, the really important thing to do
is to set about increasing your skill as a business prognosticator. As a means
toward that end let us find out why this average was not higher:

Was this prediction based upon what you hoped would occur, instead of what you
believed would occur? Was it based in any degree upon fear or anger or revenge
or self-deception? Were you entirely open-minded about it?

Were certain of the causal factors which later brought about the result
undetected by you at the time? In other words, was your analysis seriously
incomplete?

Did you miscalculate in estimating the relative importance of the various
factors, the result accordingly being materially reshaped?

Were additional factors, sufficient to alter the outcome, introduced after your
original prediction was made?

Did you suspect the introduction of such factors, and estimate in advance their
effect?

Are you unable to account for the failure of any of these projects to develop
as predicted?

[table]

•To be filled in later. Test Chart 1+ Six Forecasts

Certain of the forecasts will have been successful, however. These deserve a
similarly careful examination since if their occurrence is dismissed as merely
a case of "luck" you will not derive from them any particular improvement in
method, and it is this improvement in method, the ability to increase
consistently your percentage of correct forecasts, which constitutes the real
goal. Accordingly, try to account for these successes as for the failures.

The results of the two preceding exercises let us set clearly before us, by
means of Test Chart 15. A survey of its two columns, when completed, suggests
several definite means of improvement. The incorrect methods are to be
eliminated, the result-getting methods developed in their power of prevision.

Have you planned, in surveying the various means of improvement which Test
Chart 15 has suggested, to utilize certain business barometers which Babson and
Brookmire specify in their lists as given on page 265.

Which of these various barometers stand in close causal connection with your
own business?

[table][merged small]

CHAPTER XV

GRAPHIC PRESENTATION

Though accurate data and real facts are valuable, when it comes to getting
results the matter of presentation is ordinarily more important than the facts
themselves.—Willard C. Brinton.

Information in Usable Form

The executive readily can supply himself with statistical data, it appears
evident from what has been said in the preceding chapter; but the effectiveness
with which he can use such data in solving business problems depends to a large
extent upon the form in which it is presented.

This statement applies especially of course to the men at the head of the
organization. Industrial conditions today are dominated by giant corporations,
which in the volume and complexity of their problems tax to the utmost the
capacity of their managers. The heads of our large corporations, it is safe to
say, are the hardest worked men in the world.

But the strain imposed by the complexity of business problems is felt also by
men lower down, in charge of departments and divisions. The effect is sometimes
to discourage any effort to do more than the literal requirements of one's job.

"If the average business man is able to think sufficiently to keep him abreast
his day-to-day job," observes Charles W. Mears, advertising manager of the
Winton Company, "he feels that he has done about all that anybody has the right
to expect of him."

When men in executive positions slip into the state of mind thus diagnosed by
Mr. Mears it portends trouble for the business. What can prove more serious in
the career of a going concern than the entrusting of its operations, in many
cases of vast proportions, to men who feel themselves unable to command the
complexities of their tasks?

The Mobilization of Business

The giant corporation at best is somewhat unwieldy but to achieve the greatest
success it must be able, as business conditions change, to make the necessary
adjustments with promptness. "It is always, I presume, a question in every
business just how fast it is wise to go," says a noted profit-maker, John D.
Rockefeller, in relating some of his early experiences, "and we went pretty
rapidly in those days, building and expanding in all directions. We were being
confronted with fresh emergencies constantly. A new oil field would be
discovered, tanks for storage had to be built almost over night, and this was
going on when old fields were being exhausted, so we were therefore often under
the double strain of losing the facilities in one place where we were fully
equipped, and having to build up a plant for storing and transporting in a new
field where we were totally unprepared. These are some of the things which make
the whole oil trade a perilous one, but we had with us a group of courageous
men who recognized the great principle that a business cannot be a great
success that does not fully and efficiently accept and take advantage of its
opportunities."

Especial significance attaches to Mr. Rockefeller's concluding statement: "A
business cannot be a great success that does not fully and efficiently accept
and take advantage of its opportunities."

In order that it may fully and efficiently accept and take advantage of its
opportunities, a business must be kept mobilized.

Speeding Up the Judgment

The mobilization of business forces has been vigorously pushed by the new
school of scientific managers. Methods have been devised for bringing
materials, machinery, men, capital, and even the management itself under close
control. When this regulating apparatus has been properly connected with
headquarters, it is assumed that the executive, like the dispatcher of trains,
will hold the organization in the hollow of his hand.

But how can the executive himself, his problems marshaled before him, pass
judgment upon them quickly and accurately!' Too often the overworked manager,
so intricate are the problems in themselves and so rapidly do they appear upon
his desk, is tempted to base his answers upon opinion rather than fact and
decide quickly with a hope that his guess is correct. Such sacrifice of
accuracy to speed means disaster.

In order to meet this man's needs, therefore, the problemsolving method
described in a previous chapter must be accelerated in its operation.

Condensed reports, worked up in the proper form, will usually provide the
desired acceleration. They render it possible for the executive to decide both
rapidly and accurately.

Much has been accomplished in recent years in devising report forms which can
be used as accelerators, placing before the executive the statistical
information which he must know in compact shape and with proper emphasis. Some
of these "thumbnail reports" seem to have reached the limit of the expressive
use of language in the conveyance of facts.

But we need not stop with language. There is a swifter mode of expression—the
appeal to the eye, by means of diagrams, charts, and graphic devices of various
kinds. Language, especially written language, is comparatively slow. Pictures
address the eye, the swiftest of the senses. Diagrams and charts, provided
their proportions are accurate, present essential relationships at a glance.

Graphs in the Great War

These graphic methods of report and record were used with striking success in
the Great War, when masses of details, on a scale often enormous, were handled
with speed and accuracy. A correspondent thus describes the methods employed by
General Berthelot, the French Chief of Staff, during the grim days of October,
1914.

Dunkirk, Oct. 28 (By mail) : A man in pajamas (at least he wears them most of
the time, being too busy to dress) is running the one thousand and one details
of the French army. General Joffre is at the head and he handles the big
questions, presses the buttons, so to speak, but General Berthelot, Chief of
Staff, does the actual work.

After several trips along the fringe of the war, after meeting thousands of
soldiers on the same day, some going north, some going south, in what appeared
to be a hopeless tangle, it struck me more forcibly than ever that the modern
fighting machine is the most complicated thing on earth.

I tried to imagine myself commanding all this, to grasp how a 200-mile line of
this sort could be controlled and how it could possibly be kept from getting
tangled up with itself and without interference by an enemy. My curiosity grew,
until I decided to find out how all this business is managed by one man.

In General Joffre's headquarters, in a certain long room, hangs a special map,
the scale of which is 1-1000. It shows every road, canal, railway, bridle path,
pig-trail, bridge, clump of trees, hill, mountain, valley, river, creek, rill,
and swamp. This is part of the outfit. Another part is a wonderful collection
of wax-headed pins of all colors and sizes. These represent army units of all
sizes and all organizations. Into the long room run many wires, both telephone
and telegraph. Wireless apparatus is also in this room. The way it works seems
wonderfully simple when it is explained.

The battle is about to commence. The troops have been distributed all along the
200-mile line. The Germans are facing them. A bell rings: "Hello! Yes! The
Germans are attacking General Durand's division? They are in superior numbers?
The General needs le-enforcements? All right."

The staff officer who has taken this information over the phone hurries to
where General Berthelot is sleeping. The General has just dozed off. This is
the first sleep he has had in thirty-six hours. But General Berthelot is wide
awake in an instant. He jumps to the floor, still wearing his pajamas, the only
garment he has worn in several days. The staff officer reports.

In a twinkle, General Berthelot, who knows his map as he does his own face,
locates Durand's division. He knows that ten miles back of Durand's command are
quartered a number of reserves, under General Blanc, according to the pins.
Berthelot also learns from the pins that a number of autobuses are near Blanc's
soldiers.

"Order General Blanc," he commands, "to re-enforce Durand at once with 10,000
men, four batteries of 75-millimetre artillery, ten machine guns, and three
squadrons of cavalry. Tell Blanc to transport his troops in autobuses."

Within two minutes, General Blanc has received the order. Within five more he
is executing it, and General Durand is informed that help is coming to him.

Then General Berthelot takes another nap, if the battle will permit. If it does
not, he stays awake to direct men who are miles away from him.

Every time a bridge is blown up or a pontoon has been thrown across a stream or
a food convoy shifts, General Berthelot gets up and shifts his pins to indicate
the change. Nothing happens along the 200-mile battle line but that General
Berthelot, still in pajamas, leaps from his bed and changes the pins on the
map. The map must be kept up to the minute. General Joffre must be able to look
at it any time of the day or night.

As far as possible, through information brought in by spies or aviators, the
forces of the enemy are kept track of in the same manner. No detail that is of
use is overlooked. The pins indicate even the size of the guns, the kind of
ammunition they use, and so on ad infinitum.

Why the Executive Uses Graphs

It was not only the courage and devotion of French soldiers which saved France
and civilization at the Marne; it was also the development by the executives in
charge of a

swift and reliable method for handling enormous masses of details.

The methods here utilized are equally applicable to business; condensed reports
provide the information required and graphic methods of presentation render it
usable. In consequence, when the details involved in the operation of a large
scale enterprise have been condensed into a few graphic charts and laid
regularly upon his desk, the manager who before was overburdened will sense the
significance of mobilization in his business.

Graphic methods, in fact, provide a new language. Its symbols to the initiated
convey quantitative facts with accuracy, ease, and rapidity.

r. They substitute facts for guess-work. The graph calls for verifiable
evidence as its material; "I guess so," cannot be plotted.

2. They mean organized thinking. Myriads of details are summarized that the
essentials may be set forth.

3. They keep results in sight. They are both a check upon what has been done
and an incentive to accomplishment. The plain record of what has been
stimulates the mind to seek what is to come and aids it in answering this
question wisely.

In fact, graphic methods are short cuts to business knowledge. The essential
facts and relationships which it might take months to discover through unaided
study are, when properly presented, focused into a half-day's time.

Maps

In securing for himself these benefits of graphic methods, the business man has
at his command several different mediums or devices. Among these, maps are
available for a variety of purposes.

A wall map for instance may be shaded to show the consumption capacity,
consumer occupations, yield of crops per acre, potential water-power, or
similar information of a particular territory. In any case, a scale according
to which the shading is done must be decided upon, usually the portion highest
in the particular item under consideration being made solid black and the
lowest left white. This scale, it may be added, as a rule should be placed for
explanation in a lower corner of the map.

Coloring may be used in practically the same way as shading, although shading
is better for showing gradations in the same item and for purposes of
reproduction. The sales manager of an agricultural implement house, for
instance, when indicating sections yielding varying bushels of corn per acre
will find a map of blue, red, yellow, etc., less easily intelligible than a
shading system with its progressive degrees of darkness. In marking off the
territories of his various branch offices, however, color proves convenient.

Dots and circles placed upon the map convey very satisfactorily at times the
information desired. An automobile manufacturer, selecting as his scale, let us
say, one dot for every five hundred automobiles, pictures to himself and
associates the distribution of motor cars in the United States. Or it may be he
represents the total number of cars in a state by means of a circle of given
size, a second circle representing those of his own manufacture.

Increasing the Map's Usefulness

The map and tack system, in which the various towns visited by a salesman are
connected with a string, has for some time been commonly used by sales managers
in routing their men.

Pins when used with maps increase their usefulness. Each pin may represent a
service station, a sales agency, a branch factory, a prospect, sales of $1,000,
or other items appropriate to this method of presentation. The large variety of
pins available—plain, colored, numbered, lettered, celluloidcovered,
cloth-covered, round, square, star, or flag design— enable one to devise almost
any system one may desire.

President Simmons of the Simmons Hardware Company has hung in his office at St.
Louis a huge map of the United States, on which appear colored disks. Each disk
contains as its center the photograph of a salesman, the position of the disk
indicating where the salesman is traveling and its color which one of the
branch houses he travels for. An arrow back of the disk shows by its color and
direction what that salesman is accomplishing in comparison with his previous
record. The person familiar with this map reads its whole complicated story at
a glance.

The map system with its various adjuncts is a complex and facile instrument,
able to set forth data with considerable fairness and accuracy.

"Boards" Which Present Facts Graphically

An office manager, faced with the problem of keeping an accurate record of the
employees whom he constantly shifted from one department to another as the work
fluctuated in amount, finally hit upon the checker-board idea.

On a small card-table he diagramed the office. Serious congestion in a
department he indicates by a small red flag, a surplus of workers by a small
white flag. The employees he represents by celluloid discs, upon which their
respective names are written. In addition to this he has worked out a color
scheme: a white disc indicates an employee of ordinary ability; red, a division
head; gold, a worker to whom special responsibility can be delegated; and
half-red and half-white an employee in line for promotion. Tardiness is
indicated by a small green thumb tack inserted into the disc.

Boards frequently prove serviceable for the display of various data. Sales per
week of the sales force, with the respective contributions of each member, are
placed upon a board in the salesmen's room for purposes of record and
incentive. Interviews, luncheon appointments, meetings, and other engagements,
particularly when the persons concerned have an active part in these affairs
for which preparation must be made, may be noted upon small cards and either
hung upon hooks or slipped into recesses upon a board arranged left to right
according to the days of the week and top to bottom according to hours of the
day. The various positions of officers and employees in an organization, with
their duties, responsibilities, and connecting lines of authority, are
sometimes charted by enterprising companies, for the information of their
employees.

Control-Boards

The board as a check upon the progress of work is one of its most common uses.
The architect whose desk sheet was shown on page 54 has what in essence may be
termed a control-board. Contractors, printers, publishers, manufacturers
—almost anyone in fact who wishes to keep a check upon himself in carrying
through a job—separate a piece of work into certain essential processes and
prepare the board to record under these headings the progress to date. Various
elaborations of the control-board have been devised, most of them receiving the
approval of the scientific managers.

Geometric Figures as Aids in Presentation

Charts expressing data by means of straight lines are often easily made and
effective. A chart prepared for a busy manufactu1er by his accountant was
useful not only in picturing to the executive's own mind the work of a
twelvemonth, but proved to be valuable "ammunition" when he appeared at the
various conferences held by the company's work managers during the year. The
quota for each plant had been set at a conference held at the close of the
previous fiscal year, the production expected for each month being indicated by
a tick on a dotted line which represented said quota. A solid line which
represented what was actually being attained was extended from month to month.

[graphic][subsumed][table][ocr errors]

Figure 27. A Railroad's Operating Ratio

The Vertical Bars are here used with excellent result. A considerable body of
data is set forth clearly, in such a way that comparisons can also be made
without difficulty. (Reproduced by permission from The Magazine of Wall
Street.)

Horizontal or vertical bars are in certain cases more satisfactory than lines.
Length of line proportioned to volume of the items under consideration is, of
course, the essential principle in Figure 27, but while the ordinary line might
show this it would be indistinct as compared with the vertical bar used in this
instance. Production records, volumes of sales, cost of an article, stock
quotations, expenses, and savings are typical of items which lend themselves to
presentation in this way.

The bar also is an excellent device for showing component parts. Two operators,
let us say, are found under the stop

watch to vary in the average time consumed in performing a certain process.
This information is good so far as it goes, but for best results the time study
should be detailed and

[graphic][merged small][merged small][table][graphic][ocr errors][ocr errors]
[ocr errors]

Figure 28. Detailed Time Study of Two Operators Labeling Packages

By this method of presentation the reader may see clearly the relative length
of rime for different operations as well as rhe comparison of total time taken
by the two workers. Dimension marks and figures show conveniently, the actual
number of seconds required. The different operations have been given numbers
1nstead of names. The scale to which the chart is drawn is named. (Reproduced
by permission from Brinton's Graphic Methods for Presenting Facts.)

the findings presented graphically. This has been done in Figure 28. Since it
is often desired to present graphically in its component parts the disposition
of the company's gross revenues, the relative amount sold of various supplies
in a service station, or the items entering into the cost of a commodity, the
horizontal or vertical bar has here a considerable field of usefulness.

Rectangles enable one to work still more freely with areas than is possible
with the bar. The cube, or at least some form of solid, would seem at first
thought to be somewhat more valuable than the rectangle in that it adds the
third dimension. It is questionable, however, in view of the lack of skill
shown by numerous makers of graphs, if to date the use of areas and solids in
graphic presentation has not contributed more of confusion than of clarity.

Charts Which Confuse

The difficulty is well illustrated by this chart, prepared by the overzealous
head of an accounting department, picturing his factory's production of shoes
"in round numbers." (See Figure 29.) Are these three figures to be interpreted
on the basis of diameter, of surface, or of cubic contents? In the first case
the gain would be 1:2:4, in the second 1:4:8, in the third 1:8: 64, certainly a
considerable variation due solely to one's interpretation. It may be added that
in this particular instance the comparison by diameter was intended,
notwithstanding the use of the term "round numbers."

[graphic][merged small]

Figure 29. Factory Production of Shoes Shown "in Round Numbers"

In diameters these illustrations arc as 1:2:4; in areas as 1:4:8; and in
volumes 1:8:64. The diagrams should indicate clearly which interpretation is
intended and include the data as well. In such cases it is preferable to use
some forms of graphic device in which this chance for confusion docs not arise.

The circle is in common use as a means ol snowing component parts. Public
utility corporations during the last few years have frequently shown in this
way the disposition of their gross revenues, an excellent choice for the
purpose since no other graphic device has become so widely known nor so
generally understood. In view of the erroneous theories concerning cost, and
the relation of his wages to cost held by the average wage-earner, such charts
would serve a useful purpose generally in combating the irresponsible
statements of agitators.

Curves, the Graphic Device Par Excellence

The device which is most commonly employed as a means for graphic presentation
is the curve. The reasons for this we may illustrate by citing the control
chart recommended by Mr. Farnham which shows the total net profit accruing from
a business each month in comparison with the standard set on a proper return
upon the investment. (See Figure 30.)

[graphic]

Figure 30. Control Curves Showing Gross Earnings of Three Factories

(Reproduced by permission from the Engineering Magazine.)

The standard profit, in this case ten per cent, has been represented by a
straight line drawn across the chart at the proper height, and the danger point
below which net profits should not fall if adequate returns are to be earned,
in this case set at five per cent, has been represented by a lower broken line.
For purposes of comparison the average net profits for the previous year are
shown by a third horizontal line. These three lines, one of them chiefly of
historical interest and the others

[table][table][ocr errors][ocr errors][table]

% 1915 - %

Figure 31, Curves Used as a Means of Executive Statistical Control (Reproduced
by permission from the Engineering Magazine.)

setting forth the results predetermined by the management, comprise what may be
termed the preliminaries.

The gross earnings month by month derived from the firm's three factories are
shown in Figure 31 by the three control curves marked Works No. 1, Works No. 2,
and Works No. 3. Certain deductions, such as interest, discount, commissions,
and other items not easily charged to the proper factory, are subtracted from
the total profits derived from the three plants and the balance is shown by the
"total net profit" curve.

Variations in this total net profit curve can readily be traced to their
respective causes. When profits slump badly in July and August the executive
need only glance at his curves to see that the returns from Works No. I were
normal and that Works No. 3 was surpassing its record of last year. Works No.
2, however, calls for attention. Were curves available showing in detail the
performance of the three plants, it would be a simple matter to pass from this
master chart into each further analysis as appeared desirable.

The control curves by their ability to keep clearly before the executive the
essentials of the information which he needs, thus give him a real grip upon
the performance of the business. Accurate, clear, thought-provoking,
comprehensive in its capacity to handle data and admirable in the comparison it
affords, a curve is the graphic device par excellence.

Standards for Graphic Presentation

In order to attain its highest efficiency as a language presenting data with
speed and clearness, the graphic method should utilize a set of somewhat
carefully standardized symbols. Unless the graphs prepared by a half-dozen men
working independently upon the same data show a reasonable degree of
similarity, for example, it is to be expected that much needless effort will
continue to be consumed in the interpretation of diagrams whose message should
be conveyed to the reader at a glance.

While considerable unnecessary variety now obtains, standards are in process of
being worked out. The American Society of Mechanical Engineers some time since
invited a number of other scientific societies of national scope to co

operate in a Joint Committee on Standards for Graphic Presentation, the purpose
being to recommend a small number of brief and simple rules which may be used
as a sort of grammar by persons having graphic presentations to prepare and to
interpret. To date this committee has drawn up as a tentative list the
following seventeen rules:

1. The general arrangement of a diagram should proceed from left to right.

2. Where possible represent quantities by linear magnitudes, as areas or
volumes are more likely to be misinterpreted.

3. For a curve the vertical scale, whenever practicable, should be so selected
that the zero line will appear on the diagram.

4. If the zero line of the vertical scale will not normally appear on the curve
diagram, the zero line should be shown by the use of a horizontal break in the
diagram.

5. The zero lines of the scales for a curve should be sharply distinguished
from the other co-ordinate lines.

6. For curves having a scale representing percentages, it is usually desirable
to emphasize in some distinctive way the 100 per cent line or other line used
as a basis of comparison.

7. When the scale of a diagram refers to dates, and the period represented is
not a complete unit, it is better not to emphasize the first and last
ordinates, since such a diagram does not represent the beginning or end of
time.

8. When curves are drawn on logarithmic co-ordinates, the limiting lines of the
diagram should each be at some power of ten on the logarithmic scales.

9. It is advisable not to show any more co-ordinate lines than necessary to
guide the eye in reading the diagram.

10. The curve lines of a diagram should be sharply distinguished from the
ruling.

11. In curves representing a series of observations, it is advisable, whenever
possible, to indicate clearly on the diagram all the points representing the
separate observations.

12. The horizontal scale for curves should usually read from left to right and
the vertical scale from bottom to top.

13. Figures for the scales of a diagram should be placed at the left and at the
bottom or along the respective axes.

14. It is often desirable to include in the diagram the numerical data or
formulae represented.

15. If numerical data are not included in the diagram it is desi1" able to give
the data in tabular form accompanying the diagram.

16. All lettering and all figures on a diagram should be placed so as to be
easily read from the base as the bottom, or from the righthand edge of the
diagram as the bottom.

17. The title of a diagram should be made as clear and complete as possible.
Sub-titles or descriptions should be added if necessary to insure clearness.

The standardization of graphic methods, through a general conformity to such
rules as these, will insure a gradual perfecting of this already highly useful
language until we shall possess a business shorthand of the nth power. With
this to aid them, our corporation managers and those who are to manage the
still greater enterprises of a decade hence will attain that speed and accuracy
of decision which signifies their mastery of facts.

Qualities Essential to the Executive

What qualities are most essential in the success of an executive? The concensus
of opinion of 276 business men whose ratings were secured by the author was
this :*

1. Judgment, i. e., reasoning ability, accuracy in conclusions, ability to
profit by experience; and

2. Initiative, i. e., alertness, imagination, originality, independence in
thinking.

These are the two qualities with which the preceding five chapters have been
concerned. Their cultivation will render the business man that which, if he is
to succeed in a large way, he most of all should be, The Thinker in Business.

Exercises

Data You Need

The investigation of business establishments with respect to the data with
which they work reveals two general defects: The data as a rule are seriously
incomplete, and they are kept in more or less

•These results are presented with some detail in the author's book, "The
Selection and Training of the Business Executive."

chaotic condition. Both these defects should be eliminated systematically.

Turn to the sources of information specified on pages 231 and 265. Which of
these sources do you now utilize?

In order to administer a business effectively, a general executive should have
before him at all times in convenient form data such as the following:

Labor turnover
Sales, orders, and deliveries
Sales costs

Earnings and dividends

Within each department graphs can be kept by means of which the operations of
the department are shown in greater detail. The purchasing agent, naturally,
will find it helpful in placing orders to have available curves showing the
market price of certain commodities and the amount consumed in his plant. The
sales manager plots the total volume of orders, the various territory volumes,
and the various commodity volumes, together with the prices secured. The
advertising manager will devise graphs showing the inquiries and business
secured by different advertisements and mediums, and the production in orders
of each particular letter of his follow-up. These illustrate only meagerly the
many uses possible.

Do you possess information complete enough and detailed enough to give you the
exact knowledge needed in your work?

Think over the decisions held up or avoided or guessed at because sound
information was not had, and make note of what sources, specified in the lists
to which reference is made above, you do not now utilize. What additional
sources of information could you make use of to good advantage?

Graphic Presentation of This Material

What have you done in presenting this information graphically? What could you
do?

The equipment required for this purpose need not be elaborate. A set of drawing
instruments, a flat-topped desk, ink, and paper comprise the essentials. In
preparing curves, the cross-ruled paper kept by stationers for this purpose is
to be advised. This paper can be had in various sizes and rulings, the smaller
squares being more suitable for finer divisions and accurate work. Scales
appropriate to quantities shown must be selected and in addition the scales
themselves should be brought into such relations with each other as will
present the particular data with accuracy.

Material costs
Inventories

Wastes, as rejections, spoiled

work, etc. Manufacturing costs

The system may appear somewhat complex at first because only after a time will
you have selected the essential facts of your business and acquired the
facility to read at a glance these facts when compressed into graphs. But since
such selection of essentials can be made and such facility of interpretation
developed, the graphic method constitutes a very real aid in the mobilization
of business.

"Given the organization," declares Dwight T. Farnham, "the executive who has
his business before him—as a modern general has his battlefield before him
accurately mapped to scale—is much more likely to predict the outcome, and to
realize the outcome he desires, than the man who depends upon an uncorrelated
mass of recollections and upon his intuition. And the executive who, like the
modern general, is prepared is the one who will win his fight upon the
battlefield of business."

PART VI
PERSONAL DYNAMICS

The thoroughly healthy person is full of optimism; "he rejoiceth like a strong
man to run a race." We seldom see such overflowing vitality except among
children. When middle life is reached, or before, our vital surplus has usually
been squandered. Yet it is in this vital surplus that the secret of personal
magnetism lies. Vital surplus should not only be safeguarded, but accumulated.
It is the balance in the savings bank of life. Our health ideals must not stop
at the avoidance of invalidism, but should aim at exuberant and exultant
health.—The Life Extension Institute.

CHAPTER XVI

PHYSICAL ENERGY

Maximum vitality and maximum efficiency are tied up with each other.—Luther
Gul1ck, M.D.

Pushing the Project Through

The last five chapters have considered the more strictly intellectual aspects
of business management—how to evolve constructive ideas, become a practical
thinker, cultivate a sound foresight, and utilize graphic methods in order to
decide more quickly and more accurately. These to the profit-seeker constitute
important matters, no doubt. Business is not, however, merely an intellectual
occupation, but a game, a battle, in which the man who wins must strive with
every faculty tuned to concert pitch.

"The pressure all the time is severe," declares President Vanderlip of the
National City Bank, "and at times of stress or crisis it becomes pretty nearly
unbearable. A man must be able to stand up under it and not cave in at a
crucial moment."

The most feasible project remains barren unless put into practical operation,
and it is thus no mark of business superiority to think brilliantly but cease
at that. Effort must follow thought, and force it home.

Accordingly, this chapter and the next two chapters— Physical Energy, Power of
Will, and Mental Economy—will consider the development and proper conservation
of the business man's personal force. The two parts which follow—"Personal
Finance" and "A Man Among Men"—deal with forces outside himself which
nevertheless powerfully supplement his own effort. With these various forces
mobilized, the executive should be able to push his venture to a complete
realization. The Victories of Physique ,

Only in works of fiction do men with new ventures meet universal acclaim and
live happily ever afterwards. In practice, as every battle-scarred veteran
knows, new projects, whatever their merits, have to override a certain amount
of opposition. The minds of men are more or less self-centered and bound by
habit. These old grooves of thought are pleasant and self-interests remain
primary, so who would not stone the prophet who advocates and attempts actually
to secure larger output, less waste, financial reorganization, or prompter
deliveries?

The philosopher may expound his conclusions, leaving men to accept them at
leisure though it take a century or more; the scientist in his laboratory
shielded from the world states calmly his revolutionary theories; but the
business man in order to realize his projects must descend into the arena,
there to meet thick-skinned, robust personalities face to face and force them
to a quick decision. This requires energy.

The star salesman after a few days' indisposition finds that his sales have
slumped; he calls these "off days" and diagnoses his case as "lack of pep."
This same quality, physical vigor, is likewise essential for department heads
and chief officials, and those conspicuously successful in handling men have
possessed it in abundance.

The magnificent breadth and depth of Bryan's chest and his superb vital organs
are largely responsible for the national influence exerted for years by this
not above average intellect. Henry Ward Beecher, Charles Spurgeon, Phillips
Brooks, were men of splendid physique and vitality. Cyrus McCormick to the
despair of his employees was like a great engine that never tires; Charles E.
Hughes, as his secretary tells us, "goes at a new piece of work like a hungry
man at a meal;" and Theodore Roosevelt has been described as "a steam engine >
grousers."

Men of energy plus, dynamic, aggressive, push their ideas to completion. Such
men are positive; motors not trailers.

The Wastes of Below-Par Condition

The average man by no means possesses in full measure this energy, this basic
physical vigor.

In our country the annual sick list reaches the enormous total of 3,000,000
persons ill all the time, half of whom ought not be sick at all and would not
if simple and known methods of prevention were utilized. Over 600,000 human
lives are needlessly sacrificed to disease each year, which amounts to
6,000,000 every ten years and 60,000,000 in a century.

Within the last thirty years there has been an extremely large increase in the
mortality from nearly all the most deadly and incurable chronic disorders.
Seven great scourges: consumption, pneumonia, diseases of the kidneys, cancer,
apoplexy, diseases of the heart and blood vessels, and nervous disorders,
destroy one-half of the 1,500,000 who die in the United States annually, while
typhoid fever and influenza, two of the most common and most dreaded of acute
diseases, together kill less than three per cent. Cancer kills three times as
many as typhoid fever, more than apoplexy, three-quarters as many as kidney
diseases and pneumonia, and half as many as consumption.

Acute maladies come from without; they attack us from some foreign country,
neighboring city or neighbor's house. But these chronic maladies are the result
of errors in personal habits or unwholesome conditions of life which pertain to
the office, the home or other immediate environment. The chronic maladies which
are devastating the race, which have diminished the expectancy of life for
those over forty years, and which within the next half century unless checked
will decrease to a marked degree the average longevity, are simply the result
of vicious seed sowing in erroneous personal habits. Especially is this true in
regard to habits pertaining to diet and harmful indulgences, the evil effects
of which the public know, although the knowledge has little appreciable effect
in lessening these unwholesome practices.

Overlooked Resources

Both body and brain, in consequence of the conditions specified, function far
below their maximum.

"Most of us feel," says William James, "as if a sort of cloud weighed upon us,
keeping us below our highest notch of clearness in discernment, sureness in
reasoning, or firmness in deciding. Compared with what we ought to be, we are
only half awake. Our fires are damped, our drafts are checked. We are making
use of only a small part of our possible mental and physical resources."

We are in reality but half-men—battleships which never fire a broadside,
splendid race horses at donkey speed, farms given over largely to weeds, heirs
camping upon the outskirts of their rich inheritance.

Since the seeker of profits seizes upon every rich opportunity and tills it, he
should recognize as fertile fields these unused resources within himself.

Were these preventable diseases checked, the saving to the nation in chronic
invalidism and in the productive value of lives would not fall short of
$1,500,000,000 annually; the moral benefits are incalculable. Men would live
upon a higher plane. Sickness should be regarded in its true light as a
retarder of energy, a bar to advancement, and a crime committed against the
full-men we ought to be.

"A sad commentary on the low health-ideas which now exist," says Irving Fisher
of the Life Extension Institute, "is that to most people the expression 'to
keep well' means no more than to keep out of a sick bed."

The Roosevelt Conservation Commission on National Vi

tality concludes that over fifteen years are lost to the average life through
lack of application of knowledge which already exists but which simply has not
been disseminated and applied. The business man wants to add these fifteen
years to his life and throughout his entire career to attack each day's work
with exultant vitality. He is interested in programs of health culture as a
means to that end.

To war against "off days," sickness, and disease is to war against
incompetence, poverty, and waste.

To practice assiduously the rules of right living is to exalt energy, force,
personal power. "Give me health and a day," says Emerson, "and I will make the
pomp of emperors ridiculous."

What Shall Our Physical Ideals Be?

In mapping out a practical program the business man commonly is confused by the
variety of "cults" and "isms" which, directly or indirectly, have to do with
health and healing. They spring up in the night, offer him the most wonderful
remedies (usually for a substantial consideration), with diagrams and advice
much of which is directly contradictory and but little of it valuable.

Moreover, there are those strong and virile people who laugh to scorn any and
all rules, whether prepared by charlatans or sober medical bodies, eating and
drinking and working in utter disregard of all save their own sweet wills. In
reality these are physical spendthrifts, to whom or to whose children a day of
reckoning will come. In the meantime, however, they prove a stumbling block to
the earnest health seeker.

In estimating the value of any plan of health culture, one must keep
perspective. Sim D. Kehoe of Indian club fame died of consumption; Dr. Winship,
a lifter of great weights, died of prostration; a famous muscle-maker of New
York was obliged to seek health in California because intent on developing
muscle he had overlooked lungs, heart, and stomach.

Physical training is one thing; the care of the body quite another.

The business man is not interested primarily in knotty biceps, giant legs, nor
the ability to run a hundred yards in ten seconds flat. His ideal is not to be
a second Sandow, or Gotch or Jess Willard, his aim, not to break records but to
fit himself for efficient work. Vitality is what he seeks, the development of
lungs, heart, stomach, liver, and kidneys in order that he may forge ahead in
business.

Sources of Physical Energy

There is nothing particularly mysterious about energy; it is simply the result
of food and air burned inside the body. Rapid oxidation means vigor,
non-oxidation means death.

The average human body every hour produces heat sufficient to raise two and
one-half pounds of water from the freezing point to the boiling point; the same
amount of heat that could be produced by burning two-thirds of a pound of coal.
In doing this the body consumes itself at the rate of one-eighteenth of its
weight every twenty-four hours. If this consumption is to continue vigorously
and incessantly, the outgo must be balanced by intake. The maintenance of such
equilibrium is the purpose of food.

Food and Normal Diet

The proper amount of food is not to be measured by its bulk, since some foods
are highly concentrated. The measure which scientists have adopted for stating
fuel values is called a calorie—the amount of heat required to raise one cubic
centimeter of water one degree, and the average sedentary worker needs about
2,500 calories per day.

This amount of food should keep a person in normal weight, a condition which
represents good daily management and argues well for long life. t Insurance
companies have learned that young men who are underweight do not constitute
good risks and that after middle age overweight is a real menace to health,
either by reason of its mere presence as a physical handicap or because of the
faulty habits of living that are often responsible for its development.

Underweight and overweight both have diets and regimens, so that no mysterious
or elaborate "systems" or drugs are needed. A man should consult such food
tables as are given, for instance, in "How To Live,"* and, after determining
the amount which keeps him in favorable condition, should vary his intake
according to the seasons and the kind of work he does.

The Three Chief Classes of Foods

The three chief classes of foods are protein, fat, and carbohydrates.
Protein—for example, the white of eggs or the lean of meat—is in the main a
tissue builder, serving for the growth and repair of the body. Fats and
carbohydrates are exclusively fuel foods, containing carbon as their essential
element. Butter, sugar, nuts, and cereals are some of the commonest forms of
these foods.

A diet deficient in protein permits the body to waste away. If too abundant in
protein, the liver and kidneys are overworked and putrefaction, with its
attendant ills, is liable to take place. The correct proportion, stated in
calories, is about one to nine. Of the 2,500 calories required by the average
sedentary worker, 250 calories should be protein and 2,250 fats and
carbohydrates.

A most serious error in the average diet is the excessive proportion of protein
consumed. This is usually due to the extensive use of meats and eggs, although
the inclusion of fish, fowl, shellfish, cheese, peas and beans in undue amounts
would

•See page 26.

lead to the same result. The average business man, it is safe to say, consumes
from two to three times the proportion of protein he should.

Food Selection and the Appetite

The need is for a better balanced ration; and this, in turn, can be secured
through the use of the food tables already mentioned. It is true, of course,
that the selection of food according to these tables is apt to impress one as
artificial, and not a few decide, "Give me what my appetite calls for. It knows
best." The artificialities of a modern meal, however, its appetizers, relishes,
condiments, dainties, numerous courses and variety in methods of cooking, have
pretty effectually weaned the natural appetite from its post of authority and
made it largely a creature of education and rather bad habits. This degenerate
thing is no safeguard against the allurement of a skilled chef, the
confectioner, the tobacconist and, it must be confessed, the bartender.

Restoring the Natural Appetite

Nevertheless, the appetite under normal conditions is the system's call for
food and also its promise to digest and assimilate properly what is eaten in
response to this call. Under the proper treatment it will become more natural
and better able to assume its normal function; and this result will prove
exceedingly helpful to the non-specialist in selecting the right foods and the
right amounts. The following suggestions will be found of value.

Eat only when hungry. The demand for food should come from within, not from a
clock, a waiter, or a confectioner's window.

The "all gone" feeling which may creep upon one is commonly not the organism's
call for food but an irritation produced by the contact of the stomach's
inflamed walls. Because it distends those walls, food relieves the condition
temporarily but, since the irritated linings really constitute a warning
against food, a drink of water is the right remedy.

Meals at frequent intervals, particularly the indiscriminate indulgence in soft
drinks and confectionery, allow the digestive organs no time for rest and
recuperation. The stomach is a muscular sack which like any other muscle grows
weary if overworked.

A condition of hard physical labor continued to the hour of eating or of some
serious mental disturbance, such as grief, unfits one's system to care for a
heavy meal.

In general, a meal should be eaten when the digestive organs are insistent and
ready to work.

Masticate thoroughly. It is an error to suppose that swallowing food is
synonymous with nourishing the body. A piece of steak taken as food, so far as
its having any nutritive value is concerned, remains just as much outside the
body when it is in the stomach as it would be lying on the back of the hand—
unless it be so changed by digestion that it can be absorbed into the blood and
assimilated by the cells of the body. The man who bolts his food should not
overlook this fact.

How Thorough Mastication Aids the Digestion

In dealing with starchy food, the mouth is a real organ of digestion supplying
the saliva that is essential to proper digestion. Insufficient saliva mixed
with the food results in imperfect digestion of the starchy substances.

The saliva is alkaline, hence most natural foods, being of an acid flavor,
should be retained in the mouth a sufficient length of time to become more or
less alkalized. This is especially true in the case of persons suffering from
sour stomach, etc.

Mastication liquefies the food and in this liquefying of food in the mouth, its
flavoring substances will stimulate the taste

buds at the base of the tongue. This gives the stomach and other digestive
organs an advance message of the kinr1 and amount of the digestive juices
required, which preparation is a great aid to digestion.

The gastric juices penetrate solids at the rate of only onetwenty-fifth of an
inch per hour. Since the stomach, unless it has become thoroughly exhausted
with previous efforts to empty itself, will not allow solids to pass its
portals, insufficient mastication must surely delay the process of digestion.

When, in consequence of proper mastication, all food is tasted before being
swallowed, the appetite gives warning whenever a sufficient amount of food has
been eaten. Thorough mastication is thus a sure cure for overeating.

The more one chews his food, the more natural becomes his taste and appetite.
The over-seasoning of food, in order to make it relishable even when bolted,
and the excessive use of meat and eggs which can be eaten rapidly, are avoided
when through proper mastication taste has been made reliable in the selection
of food.

Thorough mastication means giving up the habit of forcing food down. Chew the
first three mouthfuls of a meal until swallowing becomes involuntary and the
slow pace thus established will in time come to care for the rest of the meal
without further thought.

Eating when hungry and masticating thoroughly do not require the giving up of
all things that taste good. It is true in many cases that sacrifices have to be
made but the net result is not to diminish but to increase the enjoyment of
food.

Air as an Energizer

In the search for best methods of increasing the output of physical energy, air
oftentimes impresses one as being too much of a "nothing" to deserve serious
consideration. Yet while air is invisible it nevertheless is a real substance,
one cubic foot of it weighing 564 grains. It has a definite composition, which
is changed by its being breathed.

The following table shows how breathing changes the air's composition:

What does this difference signify? Simply that within the lungs changes vital
to life are constantly taking place— oxygen absorbed into the blood, carbon
dioxide and water vapor expelled.

Body and brain are but myriads of tiny cells, furnaces in which food and oxygen
unite to form the vital fires of life. Air is thus a true energizer. Our food,
however well digested and assimilated, without oxygen is just as useless as
coal without draft in a furnace.

Invigorating versus Devitalizing Air

Oxygen is a vital principle in air, and its removal means vitiation. The lungs
throw off 3,000 gallons of poison air per day, every pint of which will spoil
for breathing purposes an entire barrel of pure air. In consequence, the air in
an ordinary office should be changed from four to six times an hour.

The enemies of pure air, which in the office one must commonly guard against,
are gas jets, tobacco smoke, and the oldfashioned feather duster.

An overheated room is enervating. As a usual thing a temperature not above
70°—even five to ten degrees lower for persons in good health—increases both
mental and muscular efficiency.

Stagnant air means poison breathed in and breathed out successively. But when
the air is put into motion, either by

Per cent, of volume

Oxygen

Nitrogen

Water vapor

Carbon dioxide....

Entering
20.26

78.00
1.70
.04

Leaving
16.00
75.00
5.00
4.00

natural movement or by artificial means, the poisons are swept away and air
with its normal proportion of oxygen may take its place. The electric fan in an
office has a distinct hygienic value.

Man is by nature an outdoor animal and though for purposes of business he may
shut himself inside some office, he must never forget the call of the great
outside. A farm to the business man as far as crops are concerned is usually an
expensive joke, yet health is there. Lacking farms and even denied vacations
year after year, men might still easily spend more time outdoors every day than
they do.

A third of our time is spent in bed, in other words, eight hours daily in which
to a greater degree than during the day we control our air supply. The open
bedroom window, better still the window tent, the open tent, and the outdoor
sleeping porch have proved themselves for generations so beneficial for sick
people that all well people will eventually recognize them as worth while.

Making the Best Use of Air

The nose performs two important functions in breathing. Air entering the
nostrils is strained of its dust particles and if below body temperature is
warmed as it passes along the nasal cavity richly supplied with blood vessels.
The too common practice of breathing through the mouth is thus doubly bad; and
the gratification one might feel over the fact that a certain book entitled
"Shut Your Mouth" has passed through several editions is tempered by the
feeling that common sense should have rendered such advice unnecessary.

In natural breathing both chest and abdomen should expand and contract
together. Chest breathing alone, caused by wrong habits or constrictions, such
as a tight belt at the waist, is artificial and deprives the body both of its
due volume of air and of the good exercise that comes from full, natural
breathing.

The flat chest advertises to the world that its owner does not know how to
breathe, that he has a predisposition to lung diseases, and that with a body
half nourished and half suffocated he is prepared to do only one-half a man's
work. These things surely are not the marks of an efficient man, and they can
be avoided.

In ordinary breathing only about ten per cent of the lung contents is changed
at each breath. Deep breathing alone, by causing the air to penetrate into the
more remote and minute chambers, forces the whole lung into action, promotes
liver and abdominal circulation, sets stagnant blood into circulation,
favorably influences the blood pressure, and heightens the brain activity.

Air is an invigorator, a blood purifier or spring tonic which is without snare
and delusion, a food without money and without price.

Bodily Poisons

When food and air combine within the body energy is liberated. So far so good,
but oxidation while it results in energy also forms waste products. Fatigue
poisons develop in the muscles and brain tissues, fermentation in the mouth,
putrefaction in the intestines, and sundry other poisons, such as spoiled
foods, alcohol, tobacco, and drugs, are introduced into the system direct.

Stupefied by one or more of these various poisons, the average person "cannot
strike the pace he desires"; he lacks "pep," enthusiasm, ability to concentrate
and push his work. While suffering from the irritation and melancholy induced
by this poisoned condition, otherwise sensible men are guilty of explosions of
temper and absurd judgments which shame their saner moments. Poison in brain
and muscle is like sand in the bearings of a watch.

Headache powders, "cocktails," tea and coffee, stomach bitters, sarsaparillas,
liver pills and cathartics are swallowed in vast quantities by the victims of
sluggish livers, bad teeth, constipation and intestinal intoxication, in the
vain search for relief. Their blood is foul with poison and its purification
depends upon proper hygiene, not the putting into it of ill tasting or bad
smelling drugs.

Don't Increase the Handicap

It is essential first of all to exclude poisons from the body in so far as such
a course is practicable. The eating of decayed food and the use of
habit-forming drugs torment the body with unnecessary enemies.

It is true that alcohol is widely used and that not a few believe that it
enables them to work more effectively. Yet scientific experiments have shown
that in reality alcoholic beverages merely numb the sense of fatigue and so
deceive the user. You cannot cheat Nature with a lead nickel.

The evidence as to smoking is not yet so conclusive as in regard to alcohol,
but the indications studied are adverse. It is true that the nicotine contained
in one cigar is small in amount and most smokers assert that they will stop
smoking when it begins to hurt them. But experiments at the Pasteur Institute
have shown that the long-continued use of very minute doses of poisons
ultimately produces appreciable harm, and the claim that one will stop before
being injured is rarely carried out. In practice, it is easier to abstain than
to be moderate.

Mouth Sanitation

A second source of infection arises from the fact that the mouth is necessarily
exposed to numerous bacteria and its powers of protection are inadequate. Food
particles left between the teeth or on their surface putrefy under bacterial
action. Cavities are caused in the teeth which harbor more

bacteria. The gums are also liable to infection, which as it progresses
destroys the membranes that hold the tooth firm in its socket. Such gum
infection, it is claimed, causes the loss of more teeth than does decay.

This infection, however, is not limited in its evil effects to the mouth. The
bacteria harbored in a decayed tooth or diseased socket under a tooth later
migrates to the blood, attacking the tissues in which they can thrive best. In
this way the evils of decayed teeth and infectious gums menace the entire
system.

Scrupulous cleanliness is the best antidote to mouth infection, and in general
is all that is required. Teeth, tongue and gums should be cleaned night and
morning by the brush, applied with a rapid rotary movement. Tooth powders and
paste and mouth washes, properly prescribed, are advisable, as is also the
periodic examination and cleaning of the teeth by a dentist.

Constipation, the Anti-efficiency Malady

. A more serious danger, in truth it might well be called the worst of all
anti-efficiency maladies, is constipation. The intestinal contents if too long
retained putrefy. The poisons thus produced are absorbed into the blood and a
series of ailments result.

"It is my firm conviction," said Metchnikoff, the eminent Russian scientist,
"that if we could preserve a freedom from intestinal bacteria, we would prevent
most of the diseases that can be traced to the action of these germs, which
include chronic heart disease, arteriosclerosis, and most kinds of headaches.
Not only that, but we would greatly prolong life, because the greatest cause of
old age—the absorption of bacterial poison in the intestines—would be
non-existent."

The man who accepts constipation as a matter of course to be dealt with by a
cathartic ought to realize that its conslant and cumulative tax often ends in
grave consequences and that its elimination will probably do as much as any
other one thing to add zest to the day's work. For some people it is the
greatest bodily ill they have to suffer.

The best regulators of the bowels are foods. Prunes, figs, most fruits except
bananas, fruit juices, all fresh vegetables, wheat, and whole grain cereals are
laxative in their effect. They either stimulate a flow of juices into the
intestinal tracts or their residue constitutes a bulk which the intestinal
muscles may grip. On the other hand, milk, corn-starch, white of egg, and white
wheat flour have a constipating tendency; they are so fully digested that the
intestines are left without bulk to work upon.

The drinking of cold water freely, especially before breakfast, both stimulates
the digestive organs and tends to prevent that hardening of the intestinal
contents characteristic of constipation. Six glasses every day, the old saying
is. Allow the system its inner bath.

An excellent treatment for constipation, particularly for those who may prefer
a diet which possesses insufficient bulk, is the use of wheat bran daily. From
two to four tablespoonfuls of bran mixed in water or milk and taken before
breakfast, or two tablespoonfuls taken with each meal in which bulky foods are
not eaten, act as a water carrier and a sweep to the intestinal tracts.
Agar-agar, a Japanese seaweed product, is recommended for the same purpose. It
is to be hoped that the recent action of several manufacturers of breakfast
foods in putting on the market the more palatable cooked bran will be followed
by a great increase in the use of this simple and inexpensive remedy for
constipation.

The culture of germs able to combat intestinal putrefaction is another remedy
proposed. The drinking of sour milk or the taking of sour milk tablets is based
upon the fact that the bacteria of putrefaction do not thrive in lactic acid,
and if care is taken to keep the favored culture alive and vigorous this method
will do much good.

The kneading of the abdomen thoroughly constitutes still another effective
measure. This practice has been developed by the osteopath into a skilled art,
although practically anyone can perform such a kneading of the abdomen as will
be a benefit to himself. Since this kneading derives much of its value from the
action upon the large intestine, a knowledge of the location of this intestine
and the direction in which its contents move, which can easily be gained from
the diagrams shown in almost any text on physiology, is desirable as a
preliminary.

The natural instinct to defecate if obeyed and made a regular habit is in
itself one of the most simple and effective of health measures. Owing to the
demands of civilized life this instinct is usually deadened through failure to
exercise it regularly and can be restored to its normal sensitiveness only by a
few weeks of special care.

Exercise and Energy

The man who is out for big success in business wants a condition of maximum
energy, so that he enjoys tackling his work day by day, so that he radiates
vigor and cheerfulness and spurs associates and subordinates to enthusiastic
effort.

"To what do you owe your wonderful vitality?" Doctor Marden once asked Russell
Sage.

"I never smoke, I never drink any liquors, I retire early and get up early, and
take care of myself in every possible way. Why should I not be healthy?"

It is a question whether that program was not merely one of resisting decay.
Russell Sage had no doubt unusual natural vitality but for most executives
something more is needed if they are to reach their maximum. In consequence,
thev must needs exercise as well, since the muscular system, along with food,
air and poison, has its influence upon energy production.

When a muscle contracts, the veins are compressed and blood laden with waste is
forced toward the heart; when it expands, the arteries conveying blood from the
heart widen and a freer circulation ensues. The amount of blood which flows
through a muscle during exercise is greater than when that muscle is at rest;
in fact, experiments prove the flow during exercise to be three times as great.

Cold hands and feet are the ear-marks—pathological telltales—of a sedentary
life; improved circulation—an abounding vitality reaching to all parts of the
body—is the indicator of health and exercise.

Increased circulation quickens the normal respiration. The amount of oxygen
taken into the lungs and carbon dioxide given out is increased during active
physical exercise from 100 to 600 per cent. The flat-chested, devitalized man
is/made by exercise to breathe more rapidly and more deeply, land thus corrects
his bad physical condition. /

The increased amount of heat formed in the muscles during exertion brings more
blood to the surface and stimulates the sweat glands into activity. "In the
sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread," says the Good Book, advice valuable to
financiers as well as to manual workers. The latter exercises at his work, the
former must supplement his mental work by physical exercise.

In the digestive organs the enhanced blood supply relieves abdominal congestion
with its consequent train of headache and depression, sharpens the appetite,
quickens the digestion, and promotes the assimilation of food.

The resultant, that which primarily is sought by the business man, is an
improved quality of brain work. The vital organs when they have been induced to
normal action through systematic exercise contribute to clearness of mind,
calmness of judgment, serenity, and poise—the marks of an efficient mind.

"Spectatoritis" a Serious American Disease

These benefits of exercise are lost to great numbers of business men either
because they believe themselves too busy or have the wrong idea of what
constitutes exercise. The plea of "too busy" will scarcely bear analysis since
the question is not how many hours do you work but what you get done . The man
who through exercise is able to attack his work with zest places to his credit
more work and of better quality than his non-exercising competitors.

The wrong idea of what constitutes exercise is strikingly illustrated in the
great American game of baseball. Eighteen men, experts highly trained and paid,
do all the playing while 15,000 look on. As Professor Ross aptly puts it,
spectatoritis has become a most serious American disease. In golf, tennis,
football, boating, polo, hockey, boxing, racing and track events, the same
criticism is justified—the American is so upset with the mere desire to win
that he demands the salaried expert and thus loses the positive benefits that
would accrue to his own body if he himself, no matter how amateurishly, would
only take part.

Six Essentials for a System of Exercise

In devising a system of exercise for his own use the reader will find helpful
the following list of essentials. Detailed explanations and suggestions, on
account of lack of space, have necessarily been omitted but these are well set
forth in the books to which reference will be made.

Organic zngor, not simply muscular strength, is the aim. The exercise which the
business man needs most is that which tones up his digestive organs, lungs,
heart, liver and kidneys. He leaves it to gymnasts or prize fighters to develop
enormous

muscles, since with him brain counts much and brawn little.

All around development of the body is superior to specialization. The
professional athlete is out to break records, even though, as is usually the
case, this leads to overdevelopment in some one direction. He is a physical
specialist, but this the business man is not.

The exercises selected should be corrective in nature. Should he look himself
over from the standpoint of physical perfection the reader will probably
discover various defects. Perhaps his shoulders are round and his chest flat,
or it may be his abdomen is disproportionately large and his legs slender. In
any case there are corrective exercises devised to remedy this particular
defect, and these are of the greatest importance to him.

Exercise which is agreeable is much to be preferred. Going through a series of
exercises in a perfunctory way is beneficial, notwithstanding the commonly
accepted view to the contrary. But not so beneficial as when the movements are
done enthusiastically. Interest in the exercise, whatever it may be, is a
mental as well as a physical recreation.

Moderation is the ideal in exercise. The muscular tissues during contraction
are constantly being destroyed, but under normal conditions the process of
replacement keeps even pace. However, the too rapid destruction of tissues
which occurs during violent exercise overtaxes the system of non-athletic
business men and the various acids and poisons which accumulate in the muscles
cause soreness and a general sensation of fatigue. Such exercise is a
detriment, not a builder of vitality. The proper plan is moderate exercise
taken with regularity.

Simplicity is essential in any scheme of exercise. The plaint of many a
hard-worked business man upon being urged to exercise is, "I haven't the time
and besides I cannot afford it." Without doubt he is sincere in his belief;
exercise to him means a half day trip into the country with a dribble of bills
for carfare, golf balls, caddy hire, club fees, refreshments, dinners, etc., or
perhaps a gymnasium with elaborate apparatus and trained instructors ready to
direct each movement. The benefits, in view of the burdens, do not seem worth
while.

A full array of paraphernalia with skilled instructors, no doubt is desirable,
but the lack of it need deter no man from exercising.

Walking brings many muscles into play and is an outdoor exercise as well.
Instead of waiting for street cars or depending upon an automobile for every
move, one should make it a point to walk whenever possible. Take luncheon
several blocks from the office and in going home drop off the car some distance
away and finish the journey on foot.

A system of exercises requiring no apparatus whatever can be devised, and made
so simple that one can practice at home, at the office, or even on his walk.

Maintaining Good Posture

A suggestion for the building of vitality is the maintenance of good posture,
which although so simple, possesses decided effectiveness and can be put into
practice whenever one sits or stands.

Persons seated at desks very commonly assume sprawling attitudes, the spine
curved, the shoulders hunched up, the elbows set forward and the weight resting
on the buttocks. When walking, their posture is likewise bad; the shoulders are
rounded, the arms hang in front of the body, the head thrusts forward, the
chest is depressed and the stomach protrudes.

This incorrect posture when habitual produces a stagnation of blood of the
abdomen in the liver, which is followed by feelings of despondency and mental
confusion, headache, coldness of hands and feet, and chronic fatigue or
neurasthenia. Moreover, the physical slouch is more than likely to be a mental
and moral slouch, although the rule may have its notable exceptions.

Merely holding the body erect—chest out, head back on the shoulders, trunk
firm, weight on the toes—involves active and easy control of many muscles. The
business man who forms the habit of proper posture can give himself, in the
course of the day's activities, almost as much physical training as he could
obtain in a gymnasium. The exercise is gentle. He can keep it up all day long
without danger of overdoing and without in the smallest degree interfering with
the duties of his position. Sandow, the famous muscle builder, remarked years
ago that anyone can obtain sufficient exercise merely by flexing his own
muscles if he will do it systematically.

Says Doctor Fisk, "The man who stands, walks, and sits erect, who treads the
earth as though unafraid, develops a self-respect which commands respect from
others; he acquires a certain habit of alertness, of looking the world and its
troubles squarely in the face."

Lessons from Our Army

It is evident that physical energy—whatever may be the reader's own
condition—is not a matter of chance but is directly under his control and can
be increased in a perfectly definite and practical way by those who care enough
to do so.

Significant light has been cast on this subject in recent months by the
nation's experience in fitting its men for war. A large percentage of the
drafted men—nearly one-third of the entire number drawn in some communities—had
to be rejected for ailments or physical weaknesses which were largely
preventable. These were merely average young men, all of them in the period of
greatest vigor, it is true, but representing the entire population. What is
even more significant for our purpose is the large number of officers,
experienced and highly trained men, who had to be dismissed, some of them from
positions of great responsibility which they were especially qualified to fill,
because of physical weakness. These men were executives, their duty the
direction of other men in circumstances of unusual strain. They had all
received thorough physical training at the military academy— they were "fit"
when they began their executive careers—but some way or other they had
developed weakness and now at what should have been the moment of greatest
usefulness, they were not able to carry the exceptional strain brought by the
exceptional opportunity; they had to drop out of the line.

On the other hand, these army records are full of encouragement for men of the
type of our executives. In the officers' training camps hundreds of men over
thirty years of age, largely from executive positions in business life, were
built up through scientific and thorough instruction to a health and vitality
of which they had not dreamed.

What Uncle Sam's discipline did for them, what Muldoon's training has done in a
more limited way for his patients, cannot the executive who has not had this
training but who takes his own career seriously, do for himself?
Responsibilities held him at home in the second line of defense. All the more
need, therefore, that he make himself as fit for carrying the responsibilities
of business as those who went "over there." They are back or coming back—and he
with them wants to be a pace-setter in business.

Rules for Health Culture

The present chapter will aid in this direction. It has aimed to emphasize the
physical resources unused within us and the practical measures by which to
unlock them. It may now be summarized as follows: 1. Food:

Eat the amount that keeps you in favorable condition of

weight.

Avoid overeating and overweight.
Balance the diet according to the proper proportions of
protein, fats and carbohydrates.

Eat sparingly of meat and eggs.
Eat only when hungry.

Avoid indiscriminate eating and frequent meals.
Masticate thoroughly.

Do not bolt your food or cater to a depraved appetite.

2. Air:

Breathe through the nose.

The open mouth represents bad hygiene.
Breathe deeply.

Keep free from shallow, rapid chest breathing, tight

coats and belts. Seek fresh air.

Avoid stuffy churches, tobacco-smoke rooms, gas jets,

and dust.
Be outdoors whenever you can.

Close confinement indoors is unnatural and often is

avoidable.

3. Poison:

Choose non-poisonous foods and drinks.

Avoid drugs, alcoholic beverages, condiments, and decayed food.

Keep the mouth clean.

Adopt measures to prevent infected teeth, tongue and gums.

Drink water freely.

Do not neglect the inner bath.

Evacuate thoroughly, regularly, and frequently.
Avoid cathartics but adopt natural measures.

4. Exercise:

Develop primarily the vital organs.

Do not aim to become a muscular specialist.
Adopt corrective measures.

Avoid defects and one-sided development.
Exercise moderately but regularly.

Eschew violent or spasmodic exertion.

Observe a correct posture when you sit or stand.

Do not overlook the benefits of this and other simple

forms of exercise.

Exercises

Walter Camp's Suggestion Exercises

Walter Camp, the famous developer of athletes at Yale, offers some advice on
"How to be fit" which is useful to almost every man. He says:

Drink without eating and eat without drinking.
Warm feet and a cool head need no physician.
Dress coolly when you walk and warmly when you ride.
Your nose, not your mouth, was given you to breathe
through.

Getting mad makes black marks on the health.

You'll never get the gout from walking.

Tennis up to the thirties but golf after forty.

Two hours of outdoor exercise by the master never yet made him over-critical of
the cook.

Too many drinks at the nineteenth hole undo all the good of the other eighteen.

The best way to use the Sunday supplement is to stick it under your vest while
you walk an hour against the wind and then come home and read it.

Many a man finds too late that his motor car has cost him more in health and
legs than it has in tires and gasoline.

The men who chase the golf ball don't have to pursue the doctor.

Health Culture Chart

The rules for health culture of the present chapter have been conveniently
listed as standards for your daily observance. Test Chart 16 proves useful as a
definite check upon each observance from day to day, and when summarized at the
close of the week not only permits ready comparison with other weeks, but
enables you to survey your habits of living fairly and accurately.

[table][merged small]

In grading yourself, go over the chart at the close of each day: (1) credit
yourself with a "1" in the proper space opposite each of the fourteen items you
have conscientiously observed; (2) put a zero opposite the items violated or
neglected; and (3) credit yourself with a a or a opposite each item partially
observed. The various credits when added indicate your total for the day.

Fourteen credits represent a perfect score for the clay, and 7 times 14, or 98,
the correct observance of the health rules for a week. Since two credits should
be awarded for general good behavior or the performance of something especially
meritorious in health culture, the perfect score for the week totals 100
points.

Would not two curves which show graphically both daily and weekly health
credits steadily rising as time goes on represent about as solid an achievement
in personal management as you could make?

CHAPTER XVII

POWER OF WILL

Will-power is the tap root of efficiency.
—Charles W. El1ot

A Hard Drive Toward the Goal

In pushing an enterprise to its full completion, the business man encounters a
considerable amount of hard, grinding work. "Nearly every man who develops a
new idea works it up to a point where it looks impossible," says Thomas A.
Edison, "and then he gets discouraged. That's not the place to get discouraged,
that's the place to get interested. Hard work and forever sticking to a thing
till it's done, are the main things an inventor needs.

"I can't recall a single problem in my life, of any sort," continued Mr.
Edison, "that I ever started on that I didn't solve, or prove that I couldn't
solve it. I never let up until I had done everything that I could think of, no
matter how absurd it might seem as a means to the end I was after. Take the
problem of the best material for phonograph records. We started out using wax.
That was too soft. Then we tried every kind of wax that is made, and every
possible mixture of wax with hardening substances. We invented new waxes. There
was something objectionable about all of them. Then somebody said something
about soap. So we tried every kind of soap. That worked better, but it wasn't
what we wanted. I had seven men scouring India, China, Africa, everywhere, for
new vegetable bases for new soaps. After five years we got what we wanted, and
worked out the records that are in use today. They are made of soap too hard to
wash with and unlike any other in use, but soap just the same."

This incident illustrates very well Mr. Edison's remark that genius is not
inspiration but perspiration, and his reasons also for the selection of
persistence as the inventor's first essential. Men, once they have decided upon
a course of action, must urge themselves forward with a certain pitilessness;
they must possess driving power.

The Business of Mind Building

The struggle for business existence, in the last analysis, decides that those
who substitute wishbone for backbone, either in themselves or in subordinates,
shall be shunted into obscure places and their positions filled by persons of
positive qualities. Men in business must stand for something, must champion it
with emphasis.

"We have to 'sell' every man with whom we come in contact," declares one of
these positive contenders in the business field, E. St. Elmo Lewis, "whether it
be our value as a man or the brand of merchandise we offer, or the value of the
service of our corporation, or even our opinion of himself."

In this process of reaching out from the control of self to the direction of
others, mental domination is essential; the minds of these others must be
impressed and success compelled. The projectors of the larger American
enterprises and the ruling spirits within them today have brought to this task
a certain ruggedness of personality, an imperious mold which brooks no
opposition, a dynamic force which in the old days ruled over kingdoms and
dukedoms and which in the men of tomorrow will spell success as heretofore.

Achievement such as this is denied the man who flies all too readily the white
flag of surrender, who constantly dreads and nervously prepares for things
which never will occur; the nonentity who has capitulated to the devil of fear.
Negative

qualities inevitably yield negative results, positive qualities alone put
business on the plus side of the ledger.

The business of rebuilding one's own mind—ridding it of fear, worry, and all
other negative qualities; cultivating courage, optimism, power of will, mental
ascendancy; directing it continually successward—is one of the most practical
projects one can undertake.

Bizarre Schemes for Developing the Will

Certain "mental supremacy builders" have hit upon the very patent fact that the
mind admits of development, and by mystifying the process with such vague terms
as "etheric anticipation," "psychic magnetism," "electrifying the divine
telepathic manifestations," "ten diamond rules of self-power," and "eleven
detailed processes for developing the powerful eye," have heralded themselves
as great discoverers, even as "scientists."

"This Course," we are told in a recent prospectus, "absolutely tells you how to
generate your Mind Force and nerve energy; fine course, isn't it? Now I guess
that you begin to see that it is not one of the ordinary courses; the fact is
it is The Course. By understanding the underlying laws which control Unseen
Power you can develop your irresistible inner force and actualize your ideas of
unlimited prosperity. . . . Fifteen Dollars down or by three monthly payments
of Five Dollars."

Let the reader be assured that there is no such thing as a superadded
"will-power," a sort of separate faculty which, as one of these persons would
have us believe, can be exercised into amazing strength by gazing intently at
knot holes, pin heads, or the end of one's finger. "To sum it all up in a
word," says the most distinguished psychologist America has yet produced,
William James, "the terminus of the psychological process in volition, the
point to which the will is directly applied, is always an idea," and the
essential phenomenon of will, he further states, is merely the effort of giving
attention to this idea. Willing is thus a process of thinking, and cannot be
separated from it.

What Will-Power Really Is, and How Cultivated

This very matter of fact conception of will has to be accepted as fundamental
in all sound attempts to increase its power.

"The key to success in the line of all mental and spiritual achievement," says
Professor Dewey, "is control of the attention."

"Concentration of attention is the basic principle which lies at the very
foundation of our every-day work," says Professor Seashore.

"The habit of quick and concentrated attention is the most valuable of all
mental qualities," says President Eliot, "being the main source of the
productiveness of extraordinary workers, and in less degree of common men and
women. In all walks of life the efficient man is the thinking man who has a
firm will."

To the reader intent on mental domination, the "attention" may at first thought
appear as a miserable makeshift, a colorless shadow of the iron resolution he
seeks. How can it make him strong, "red-blooded," of inflexible determination?
Because ideas are dynamic. When Caesar declared, "I am linked to my
determination with iron bands; it clings to me with the tenacity of fate," we
see, psychologically speaking, simply a mind attending to a certain idea which,
due to its dynamic nature, tended to express itself in action. That this action
was of the history-making sort does not alter the essential nature of the
process. Remembering then that any such idea which prevails in the mind
normally is followed by motor effects, be these the wrinkling of the brow or
the conquest of empire, we reach the heart of an inquiry into willpower and its
development by this question: By what process does the thought of any given
object come to prevail stably in the mind?

Fires Which Are Damped

Should the president of a corporation walk through his organization accosting
the first dozen of his subordinates with this blunt question, "What feature
about this business are you permanently and vitally interested in?" the answer
if truthfully given would be illuminating and, it may be added, not a little
disconcerting. Several would agree it was the pay check, others would confess
it was the five o'clock signal, some would be obliged to admit that they could
think of nothing in particular—all in all, evidence of a marked deficiency in
those big vital interests through which a man forges ahead in business.

"I remain convinced," says the shrewd Englishman, Arnold Bennett, who observed
us at first hand, "that the majority of decent average conscientious men of
business (men with aspiration and ideals) do not as a rule go home of a night
genuinely tired. I remain convinced that they put not as much but as little of
themselves as they conscientiously can into the earning of livelihood, and
their vocation bores rather than interests them."

Here is the fatal defect which dampens our fire, palsies our energy,
short-circuits the will—lack of interest in what we do.

The Ruling Passion

This lack of interest is all so unnecessary. Business is the greatest of games,
more subtle than chess, more spectacular than polo, more thrilling than war,
more substantial than politics, more human than preaching, more real than
philosophizing, more enduring than creeds which have made fanatics of men. "If
a man does not find romance in business," declares Andrew Carnegie with much
truth, "it is not the fault of the business, but the fault of the man."

Every business man can and should have a ruling passion, a luminous conception
which draws him on and makes the humblest duties throb with a profound
significance. To Walter Cottingham it is the ideal of building up the world's
top-notch sales organization; to Clarence M. Wooley the vision of homes and
offices everywhere heated by Ideal Rad;ators; to Charles Schwab the dream of
steel manufactured better than anywhere else at Bethlehem; to Cyrus McCormick
the dazzling thought which flashed upon his mind years since when riding on
horseback through a wilderness path, "Perhaps I may make a million dollars from
this reaper," a thought so enormous, he said afterwards, "that it seemed a
dreamlike dwelling in the clouds—so remote, so unattainable, so exalted, so
visionary." Whether it be promotion, financial power, a perfected industrial
organization, or a prominent niche in the Hall of Fame, matters little; what
does count tremendously is that every man should put his whole soul into
something, should nurture a ruling passion and tremble under the influx of its
power.

A Mind Made Up, and Moving Forward

There is a time for indecision, it is true, in which the projects of a creative
brain are passed under the cold scrutiny of reason; a period of inner
questioning during which the search for facts goes on. When these more strictly
intellectual processes have been completed, however, procrastination,
indecision and vacillation must give way, that the mind brooding upon the
selected project may bring it forth in power.

The first rule for building power of will, therefore, is selection. This one
thing I do.

"If you only care enough for a result," says William James, "you will almost
certainly attain it. If you wish to be rich, you will be rich; if you wish to
be learned, you will be learned; if you wish to be good, you will be good. Only
you must, then, really wish these things, and wish them with exclusiveness, and
not wish at the same time a hundred other incompatible things just as
strongly."

The Ruling Passion Supplemented

A ruling passion, such as has just been described, can and will bring about
increased power. Even mediocrity temporarily under its sway has wrought
mightily, as is proved by the ability of every crisis—fire, train wreck, panic,
war, riot— to mold heroes from material which under ordinary circumstances is
sadly lacking in hero stuff.

The occasion did it, we say. Well and good; but make every business day a great
occasion. There is, literally speaking, no reason why executives at their desks
should not toil as Greek gods. The occasion is as worthy, the man is as fit,
and if only the stimulus logically inherent in the surroundings be applied, it,
too, would be as adequate.

Under usual conditions, however, this stimulus comes in temporary pulsations,
men rising only momentarily to their full mental stature, from which they
quickly fall away. By what methods may a man avoid the trough and maintain
himself more consistently upon these crests of achievement?

Yourself on Record—Cottingham's Campaign

A very practical method for the attainment of these ends

is the setting for oneself of definite tasks, and the putting of

oneself on record in connection with them.

In the spring of 1914 the tariff and currency legislation

had rendered the business outlook uncertain, if not dismal.

That able sales manager, Walter H. Cottingham, president of

the Sherwin-Williams Company, made up his mind that the

tide was about to turn, and issued a memorable letter to all sales
representatives.

"Forward Again," was his slogan. "The signs are unmistakable despite the
pessimistic forebodings of a few," declared his letter. "This means that
business men everywhere should place their shoulders to the wheel and add as
much impetus as possible to the movement.

"Business is booming despite reports to the contrary, and it will boom more. In
New York money is easier, which points out that people are regaining
confidence. Every man should be interested and do what he can to make 1914 a
banner year in business."

The Salesmen's Response

The president's letter, a message of optimism and resolution, was the first
shot in the "Forward Again Campaign." This was followed up by bulletins, house
organs, special meetings, and special prizes. Quotas were set, a "Forward
Again" creed was drawn up, and application blanks bearing this declaration soon
began to pour in upon the home office of the Sherwin-Williams Company:

February ... 1914
Mr. Walter H. Cottingham, President,
The Sherwin-Williams Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio.

Dear Mr. Cottingham:

I hereby make application for active membership in the "Forward Again"
Campaign, and agree to do my part in living up to the creed. My dues will be
paid in increased business, and I wish to be eligible for the President's
certificate. I shall show my colors by wearing the Brighten Up Crusade Pennant.

Name

Office ,

Territory

The men thus definitely set for themselves a task, and a task set for
performance becomes in turn the stimulus for its accomplishment.

The campaign resulted in a complete victory. "We went up against the biggest
February business, which was last year, and the second biggest March in our
history," said Mr. Cottingham in summarizing for the final issue of Marching
News the results attained. "Those records were made under favorable business
conditions. We have come through the campaign with all records for February and
March in the Trade Sales Department completely smashed and a gain to the first
of April."

Keeping One's Goal in Sight

The executive at his desk may set quotas for himself in various ways—a
thousand-dollar increase in sales this month, a desk cleared off by ten
o'clock, four more reports checked over before luncheon. The man who plans his
work in so doing sets quotas for himself, which is an additional reason why
planning speeds production.

Keeping the record, quota, or schedule plainly in sight increases its power as
an incentive. Cecil Rhodes, the empire builder of South Africa, in his office
constructed a large map of the continent, coloring red the great polygon
between the Transvaal and the Zambesi, and before this map he would stand
expatiating upon the vastness of the country and, running his finger northward,
explaining how Africa was to be linked up and thrown open by his Cape-to-Cairo
telegraph and railway—nerving himself in this way for his far-reaching project.

The graph showing how production in our factory has mounted steadily upward for
seven years, the series of items being checked off on our day's schedule, the
well-filled basket labeled "Finished Work" upon which our eye rests with
satisfaction as the afternoon wears on, these are things that tend to keep the
desired idea dominant in the mind.

These set tasks, this being on record before others and making promises to
ourselves of what shall be done, have a result-getting value. They stiffen the
will.

The Atmosphere of Achievement

The man who accomplishes is like a dynamo, vibrant with his major purpose. As a
careful husbandman, he shuns an environment which would dissipate his energy
and strives to build up, in so far as possible, surroundings of helpful nature,
conducive to his progress. On every hand are mottoes, poems, magazines, books,
people and places positive in their impress and stirring in the onward impulse
which they inspire. To these things a man should cleave for they form an
atmosphere of achievement which moves him steadily forward. These items
specified can be supplemented most effectively by persistent affirmation made
by the person himself.

A salesman, "one of the best I ever knew," says Mr. Holman, of the National
Cash Register Company, who relates the incident, prepared the following
"catechism," as he called it. He used to put himself through it every morning
before starting out. Oftentimes he repeated it aloud if he had the opportunity.
The questions he would repeat in a quiet tone, but the answers he would
pronounce with all the earnestness of which he was capable.

His catechism ran somewhat as follows:

Am I working for a good house? Yes!

Has my house the reputation and prestige of being one of the best in its line?
Yes!

Have we made hundreds of thousands of sales like the sales I am going to make
today? Yes!

Have we an enormous body of satisfied purchasers? Yes!

Am I selling the best goods of the kind made anywhere in the world? Yes!

Is the price I am asking a fair one? Yes!

Do the men I am going to call on need the article I am selling? Yes!

Do they realize that now? No!

Is that the very reason I am going to call on them—because at present they
don't want my goods, and haven't yet bought them? Yes!

Am I justified in asking a prospect's time and attention to present my
proposition? By All The Powers, Yes!

Am I going to get into the interested attention of every
man that I call on, if there is any earthly way to do it?
Yes!

Am I going to sell every man I call on today? You Bet
I Am!

The spirit of such positive affirmations carried throughout the day will render
a man almost invincible.

This recipe for mental rejuvenation is exceedingly simple: Stoutly, sincerely,
everlastingly affirm that the things desired you do now possess. Such
affirmations after a time mold a will dynamic in its positiveness.

A Man's Opinion of Himself

Needless to say, the efficacy of such affirmations as have just been described
depends in large measure upon whether the affirmer himself believes them true.
If he does not, their power in rebuilding his mind becomes seriously lessened;
if he does, we are faced with this question—How good an opinion of himself
should a man hold?

The man of merit who underrates his worth puts his companions at their ease,
since he himself is so modest and unassuming, observed Adam Smith long since in
his Theory of the Moral Sentiments. "If those companions, however," warned
Smith, "have not both more discernment and more generosity than ordinary,
though they may have some kindness for him they have seldom much respect; and
the warmth of their kindness is very seldom sufficient to compensate the
coldness of their respect. Men of no more than ordinary discernment never rate
any person higher than he appears to rate himself. He seems himself doubtful,
they say, whether he is perfectly fit for such a situation or such an office,
and immediately give the preference to some imprudent blockhead who entertains
no doubt as to his own qualifications.

"Though they should have discernment, yet, if they want generosity, they never
fail to take advantage of his simplicity, and to assume over him an impertinent
superiority which they are by no means entitled to. His good nature may enable
him to bear this for some time; but he grows weary at last, and frequently when
it is too late, and when the rank which he ought to have assumed is lost
irrecoverably, and usurped, in consequence of his own backwardness, by some of
his more forward, though much less meritorious, companions.

"A man of this character must have been fortunate in the early choice of his
companions if, in going through the world, he meets always with fair justice,
even from those whom he might consider his best friends. A youth, too
unassuming and too unambitious, is frequently followed by an insignificant,
complaining and discontented old age."

Faith in Self

The conclusions reached by the father of political economy, a shrewd Scotchman
who had studied at Oxford and traveled on the Continent, when taken in
connection with conditions prevailing now in the United States, certainly do
not appear exaggerated. Self-depreciation is not enabling its possessors to
forge ahead in business, whereas its opposite has advanced not a few mediocres
to positions of at least fair responsibility.

The loud-mouthed blatancy, the swagger and the preposterous claims which often
pass current as indicators of self-confidence, however, are spurious coins.
Since they represent no good-humored inflexibility, no deep-seated
determination, no

belief that capacity is there and when exerted shall prove able, they must not
be confounded with that intensity of conviction which men attuned to
achievement have cultivated within themselves.

"Trust thyself," says Ralph Waldo Emerson, "every heart vibrates to that iron
string. A man should learn to detect and watch that gleam of light which
flashes across his mind from within, more than the luster of the firmament of
bards and sages."

The man who would accomplish exceptional things should assume the part, flood
his being with positive expectation, radiate the assurance and vigorous
affirmations which beget confidence in others. "As a man thinketh in his heart,
so is he."

Attitudes of Power

In walking through our public parks, those little breathing spaces in the great
city, we often see melancholy figures, bent over in moping posture on the
bench, conversing in dismal voice. They have bent themselves into that
miserable position and talk in woebegone tones, we conclude, because they feel
so discouraged. But is this correct? May it not be precisely incorrect?

"I have often observed," says Edmund Burke, "that, on mimicking the looks and
gestures of angry, or placid, or frightened, or daring men, I have
involuntarily found my mind turned to that passion whose appearance I strove to
imitate; nay, I am convinced it is hard to avoid it, though one strove to
separate the passion from its corresponding gestures."

According to this point of view, the bodily manifestations cause the
corresponding emotions. Run from a bear and you feel frightened; look brave and
you feel brave; assume the posture of grief and that emotion will soon steal
upon you. In other words, bodily symptoms are the real content of emotions;
assume the bodily state in any particular circumstance and the emotion has
reality; refuse it bodily expression and the strongest gust of passion is as a
pale colorless shadow.

The practical implications are most important in building power of will. Fear,
violent outbursts of anger, self-depreciation, grief and melancholia are marks
of the negative state, inimicable to positive achievement. Refuse to express
these emotions—to gaze furtively around, hang the head, speak in plaintive
tones—and they die.

Assiduously, and in the first instance cold-bloodedly, go through the outward
expression of the emotions desired. Let posture and walk express self-reliance
in every lineament, speak with the accent of courage, assume attitudes of
power, and power in reality will in due time flow in upon the mind.

Self-Discipline

In order to achieve in a practical way whatever program he maps out, a man has
need of surrounding himself with rewards and penalties. Were he not to do this,
other persons would be obliged to attend to it for him, or, as is commonly the
case, he would attain only that mediocre career to which human nature, freed
from pressure, normally tends. The ambitious man prefers to discipline himself;
he devises rewards far more alluring and applies the lash with much less pity
than any superior would dare to do.

With the project set clearly before himself, he cuts off all avenues of
retreat. The doubt and uncertainties which from time to time arise and which if
unchecked will soon produce failure thoughts in rank growth, he dismisses with
scant courtesy, or when necessary with stern repression.

Such measures guard with jealousy that most precious possession of the
achieving spirit, inner positiveness.

Self-pity, self-praise, or the remarks of indulgent friends afford a man no
basis for the discipline of himself; and adequate basis depends upon standards,
and rewards and penalties should vary with the degree to which he attains these
standards. They should be graded according to the excellence of the attainment
or the seriousness of the lapse, with due regard to whether or not this be the
first occurrence.

In the operation of such a system of rewards and penalties, certain mischievous
fallacies have to be guarded against. Some of these are as follows: (1) The
surly, greedy insistence upon unearned enjoyments. Yielding but encourages
still worse greediness, still greater surliness, and trains into tyrant power
the contemptible characteristic which insists that it shall reap where it has
not sown; (2) The plaint that since effort has been carried to the point of
fatigue rewards should follow. Results attained, whatever they may be,
determine the just recompense. In a given case effort long continued without
positive attainments may merit the harshest of reprimands; (3) The excuse
habit. Were plausible excuses to secure unearned gratifications or make
possible escape from merited chastisements, excuse making would develop into a
fine art and the mental adroitness which otherwise might have carved a fortune
would be drawn from its true purpose into paths of self-deception. Therefore,
bestow rewards accurately, yet with gladness and the spirit of celebration;
penalize judiciously, with regret but firm insistence; in all things acting as
thine own best friend, rule thy spirit with an even hand.

Will Training Summarized

1. Concentrate upon some one thing—have a ruling passion.

Avoid distracting attention with too many projects.

2. Set for yourself definite tasks.

Do not leave loopholes inviting non-performance.

3. Keep immersed in the atmosphere of achievement.

Permit minor purposes no opportunity to create discords.

4. Persistently affirm the attainment of that which is sought.

Crowd out all negative thoughts.

5. Believe in yourself.

Cease self-depreciation.

6. Assume attitudes of power.

Avoid slouching postures and plaintive tones.

7. Reward and punish yourself systematically.

Do not weakly upset the natural law of consequences.

The program which this chapter has presented deals with the measures, plain and
simple, which enable a man to carry out St. Paul's injunction, "Be ye
transformed by the renewing of your mind." In practice, these measures prove
themselves capable of maintaining an idea dominant in the mind, and luminous in
its appeal. Such an idea in itself constitutes power and will and guarantees
its possessor a high order of positive selfhood.

Exercises

The attainment of will power is necessarily a matter of growth, but the program
which has been outlined enables one to proceed systematically, at a rate of
progress which can be surprisingly rapid if he so choose. Let us utilize Chart
17 as a convenient means for checking growth from day to day, and week after
week. This selfgrading chart is to be used in the same way as the health chart
shown in the preceding chapter, except that since the items are but half as
numerous the credits must be twice as large. At the end of each day: (1) Credit
yourself with "2" in the proper space opposite each item you have
conscientiously observed; (2) Put a zero opposite each item neglected or
violated; and (3) Credit yourself with "1," or

"iyi" opposite each item partially observed.

[table][merged small]

A perfect score for the day thus totals 14 credits, or 98 per week. Add two
extra credits for general good behavior or some especially meritorious act in
developing your will. The week's perfect score represents 100 credits.

You must have been convinced years ago of the importance to men in business of
a strong will, and oftentimes since, no doubt, you have longed to make such a
will your own. "Will power," says President Eliot, "is the tap root of
efficiency." Here is a clear-cut program,— something that will get results,
with a definite system of checking progress from day to day.

CHAPTER XVIII
MENTAL ECONOMY

It is one of the characteristics of mental economy that
efficiency and ease seem to go together.—Carl Em1l Sea-
Shore.

The Art of Mental Economy

The supplies of physical and mental energy, the production of which was
discussed in the two preceding chapters, must, notwithstanding their abundance,
be expended with judicious hand. This is the province of mental economy; it
concerns conservation, the utilization of the physical and mental resources
with superior discrimination. This, of course, does not mean shirking, nor
mental sabotage, but the handiness of the veteran who uses every inch of cover
in the charge, while the untrained man recklessly exposes himself.

The guiding principles of mental economy are illustrated in this study of four
Italian typesetters of the Niccolai Printing House. The record of the output
and quality of their work from hour to hour during the day showed the following
results:

[table]

These figures are significant to every business man. As the day wore along the
amount of work decreased while the errors increased. Both in quantity and
quality, working capacity rises and falls front hour to hour.

The Tired Person Is Poisoned

These fluctuations in working capacity have been experienced by practically
everyone. At the beginning of the day we have a feeling of freshness, of
reserve force and exuberance, and we attack our tasks with zest. After a time
the feeling of freshness with which we started disappears and we feel dull and
uncomfortable. It becomes hard to concentrate; the work before us no longer
appears inviting, we are easily distracted, and upon slight provocation the
mind escapes its imposed task and indulges in aimless wanderings. The feet
become cold, the head hot. Indifference gives way to repugnance, then to
restlessness, nervousness, irritability, and liability to passionate outbursts.

The well-nourished cells with which we began the day's work have been
destroyed; their energy has been yielded up and impurities now clog the system.
Literally and accurately, the tired person is poisoned.

A Record From Life's Firing Line

An instrument called the ergograph shows the process graphically. The hand,
back down, is strapped upon a small table and to the end of one finger is
attached a cord which, passing over a pulley at the edge of the table, ends
with a small hanging weight. Closing the finger lifts the weight and at the
same time by means of a pointer traces a line on the registering apparatus. The
more vigorous the muscle action the longer is the line traced. The diagram (see
Figure 32), therefore, pictures graphically what is taking place inside the
cells, on life's firing line. The muscles, bending energetically to their task,
at first pull the pointer over wide distances, but the length of their
contractions gradually diminishes until in the end, thoroughly fatigued, choked
with poisons, they are no longer able to raise the weight and the tracing
ceases.

Fatigue and Inefficiency

A very important law of exhaustion now comes into play. The muscle, thoroughly
fatigued, requires a certain period of rest before coming back to normal, but
if half-fatigued it requires not one-half this amount of repose but only one

[graphic]

Fig. 32. A Nerve Test

The flexor muscles, upon being stimulated by an electric current every two
seconds, demonstrated their strength by lifting a small weight, with which was
connected an apparatus for registering the length of the lift. No. 1 was the
muscle's record made just before the subject took an examination. No. 2,
written immediately after the examination, showed "fag" from which, according
to the No. 3, written two hours after the examination, the subject still
suffered. (From Mosso's "Fatigue," by courtesy of G. P. Putnam's Sons.)

fourth. That is, if thirty contractions completely exhaust a muscle and a
two-hour rest period restores it, the injury done by fifteen contractions can
be repaired in one-half an hour. "Work done by a muscle already fatigued acts
on that muscle in a more harmful manner than a heavier task performed under
normal conditions."

Work done when fatigued is costly.

This costliness is highly significant when considered in its relation to
efficiency. Fatigue disintegrates the personality in an especially insidious
way, because it avoids to the last the basic instincts, such as greed, hunger,
fear, and sex appetite, but the later and finer acquisitions—creative ability,
sound judgment, generosity, self-control—it attacks first of all. Since
civilization at best is but a thin veneer laid on in fear and trembling, it is
easy for fatigue to unmask the savage in us. The business man poisoned by
fatigue is selfish, ill-mannered, explosive, as tenacious perhaps over a
two-cent stamp as over a $10,000 project. The storm clouds which gather on his
face when the most trivial mishaps occur and his puttering devotion to
essentials and non-essentials alike prove that poison products have dulled his
sense of balance and that perspective is gone.

The tired man drifts naturally towards 1nefficiency. The presence of fatigue
means that the work performed under these conditions is both costly in energy
and deficient in results. It behooves us, therefore, now that we are employing
the methods described in the preceding chapters for making all possible
increases in our energy product, to adopt in the expenditure of this energy the
wise policies of conservation that will next be described.

Definite Accomplishment

The action of a dozen inexperienced track laborers in trying to move a heavy
rail contains a moral which may serve as our first principle of mental economy.
They will tug and tug at it, straining and expostulating and perspiring, yet
the rail does not budge. But observe an experienced gang. With a hearty "Heave
ho, heave ho!" they swing the rail into place. They know how.

The mental worker who keeps himself under a non-intensive, continuous strain
dribbles away fruitlessly his nervous force. Such is dawdling, the bane of
efficiency.

Time and effort are required to prepare the materials needed for a task and to
get oneself properly warmed up. A person cannot afford to put himself through
these first timeconsuming and painful steps again and again; changing aimlessly
from one job to another without fully completing any is an inexcusable waste.
When once under way the efficient worker energizes intensively and pushes the
task hard until he has some positive accomplishment to show. Then comes rest,
real freedom, for the thing carried to completion is, as it were, placed under
the custody of a ratchet which will not allow it to roll back and crush him.

Concentrate; aim at definite accomplishment.

Habits and Specialization

When this policy of concentration and definite accomplishment is put into
operation, the energy stores will doubtless be drawn upon vigorously during
certain periods. This is as it should be; accomplishment demands a consumption
of power. At the same time, however, judicious selection ought to be made among
the energy stores for those best suited to the requirements of the task at
hand. The problem is analogous to the choosing of employees.

When a group of young women apply for work at the employment department, the
skilled manager, while he may engage all of them, places them with a sureness
born of long experience. The stolid-faced girl with unkempt hair and skirt
which does not meet the waist by two inches or more he assigns to a machinery
room where the work is greasy, while the refined and sensitive girl is placed
in an inspection department where the work is of a higher character and
conditions are very different. Such placing, the manager knows, utilizes to
best effect the characteristics and the different grades of employee ability.

In our mental make-up there are the stolid workers, those stable reactions
imbedded in the subconscious—old, fixed, easy and inexpensive; and the
sensitive workers, those highly plastic

reactions held in consciousness—variable, difficult and expensive.

Use the simpler forms of mental energy, conserve the higher.

Why does one tire so quickly in doing a task the first time? Because it has to
be done by the sensitive workers, higher nerve centers—the "general manager,"
to use the phrase of Chapter X, and their effort is taxing. By and by, however,
under repetition, this once new task will come easy because made automatic,
that is, developed into a habit presided over by the lower nerve centers.

The nature of the nervous system itself, therefore, emphasizes the need for
specialization. The amateur in any occupation necessarily works under
conditions of strain, and if by shifting aimlessly from occupation to
occupation he continues this strain, he never rises to the heights of
accomplishment so easily reached and maintained by the specialist. The latter,
simply because he does specialize, lays broad and deep the foundations of his
ability in the lower mental levels —old, stable, economic, graceful; these
constitute his reserve, always at his command, and they provide him that
self-confidence and drive which lead to achievement.

Introspection versus Objectivity

Whatever be the amount and particular grades of nervous energy requisitioned
from our stores, the requirements of mental economy always dictate that these
be expended upon work. Energy when exerted should yield positive
accomplishment. This matter-of-fact policy, however, is overridden when the
mind, a victim of unhealthy self-analysis and brooding introspection, turns
like a faulty machine inward upon itself and wears its mechanism and power
fruitlessly away. According to the term in popular use, the person worries.

The causes advanced by the worrying person in attempting to account for a
particular depression appear to him very real. He has eaten some food which he
fears will not agree with him, his employer has treated him most unjustly in
placing his desk in a less favored position where possibly there are drafts, a
former acquaintance offends him by not returning the nod of recognition given
him in the crowd this morning, his project over which much labor has been
expended cannot as yet be considered definitely successful, a stenographer—"the
foolish thing"—misdirected one of his letters and it now returns to his desk
five days late. Does the matter concern health, wealth, happiness, social
position, efficiency? It is all the same. Worry tortures its victim
incessantly, finally resorting to the most insidious torture of them all by
worrying him over his worries.

The unhealthy mind continually fashions mountains out of mole-hills.

Worry, the Policy of a Spendthrift

The basis for most worries, when the matter has received a careful sifting, is
decidedly trivial compared to the beliefs entertained by the person harassed
and the damage which these overwrought beliefs have entailed upon his nervous
system. Worry, therefore, constitutes the policy of a spendthrift. It is able
to drain away the largest stores of nervous energy and when incessant, even
though mild, it is more exhausting than occasional fits of intense anger,
fright, or overexcitement. Under the more serious condition termed melancholy,
the victim tortures himself with painful emotions until the normal processes of
thought are inhibited and his mind is possessed with fixed ideas of bankruptcy,
strikes, guilt, or what not. These ideas, along with all sorts of old regrets,
checked ambitions, unrealized aspirations, self-distrusts, and the sense that
things in general are not as they should be with him, represent useless
baggage.

"In the healthy-minded," says William James, "there are no fears or shames to
discover; and the sensations that pour in from the organism only help to swell
the general vital sense of security and readiness for anything that may turn
up."

Look outward; cultivate objectivity.

This slogan serves as health's alarm clock to the person who spends over-much
time rummaging about on the inside. The task is on the outside; cleave to it.

Zones of Low Fatigue

The person alive to present opportunities, whose mind, when turned inward for
purposes of making whatever preparations are required for an effective
utilization of these opportunities, quickly swings back upon objective things,
expends himself productively. He has eliminated a most serious waste, and by so
doing has cut down appreciably the fatigue caused by his task. A still further
reduction of this fatigue produced by work is next to be considered.

Every effort put forth has its price in terms of fatigue; yet this by no means
implies that the price is necessarily always the same nor that the business
man, determined to put forth every possible effort even though it does cost in
terms of fatigue, need be an imprudent bargainer. Should he wish to pay no
exorbitant price he will find nature quite ready to deal fairly with him.

Co-operating effectively with nature in this respect requires observance of the
principle mentioned on a previous page that work done when fatigued is costly.
Conditions of steadily increasing fatigue have as their correlative, charges
which gradually become more and more costly until after a certain point is
reached the price should be regarded as prohibitive. The man who has the
foresight to consider his working capacity in terms of tomorrow, next week, or
even twenty years hence. refuses to push himself into these costly fatigue
zones. Unless it is a real emergency of some sort, the results attained do not
justify the price paid.

The sovereign method for keeping oneself in the low cost zones is recreation.
The word itself implies as much, recreation.

The Means for Recreation

Body and mind are undergoing constantly a tearing down process, metabolism, and
a building up process, anabolism. During severe effort the tissues are
destroyed faster than built up; during periods of recreation they are built up
faster than destroyed. The ideal condition is one in which a delicate balance
is preserved.

The concrete means for carrying out this ideal in a practical way are
exceedingly numerous and so varied that any business man surely can satisfy his
needs adequately. Each of the following has its enthusiastic devotees:

Walking Polo

Running Bicycling

Jumping Motoring

Handball Yachting

Gardening Fishing

Farming Volleyball

Wood-chopping Shooting

Golf Quoits

Tennis Hunting

Cricket Boxing

Baseball Wrestling

Horseback-riding Calisthenics

Rowing Ice-boating

Swimming Weight-pulling

Skating Military drill

Usually these forms of recreation are thought of in connection with a vacation,
and it is true that this period does afford an opportune time for their
exercise. Years ago the vacation was a subject of derision, as, in fact, it
still continues to be among a few business men. Yet its hold upon people of all
callings has never been more firmly established than at present, and the
practice of our leading executives is to spend longer periods of time in this
way than formerly. Doubtless it would express their view more accurately to say
they prefer to invest more time this way since the change of occupation and the
diversion of interest into new channels afforded by the vacation increases the
total results they attain during the year.

In anticipation of a vacation, however, and in view of then setting their
mental houses in order, not a few business men work desperately for eleven
months with scant regard to their physical and mental upkeep. Such a policy is
shortsighted. Under a long period of stress and strain the physical machine
toils in the costly fatigue zones and becomes seriously run down. In
consequence, too great a burden is placed upon the vacation because the process
of repair under these conditions is rendered both slow and wasteful.

The general rule that work done when fatigued is costly indicates that the time
which has been allotted heretofore to a single vacation possesses increased
effectiveness when divided into several shorter periods. Men of affairs are
steadily coming to see the wisdom of at least one vacation of reasonable length
during the year and several short ones, the latter oftentimes of the week-end
sort which has attained a deserved popularity.

"Vacations Daily"

The benefits which come from frequent rest periods may well cause a person to
consider how he may insert rest periods into his every day. Why wait even for
the week-end? In

fact, part of the plan here proposed necessarily is in operation now and the
project as a whole is entirely feasible, as we shall indicate.

The most refreshing of all rest periods as well as the most universal is sleep.
Since it holds the individual in an inactive state, his muscles relaxed and
mental activity sunken deep into the realm of the subconscious, it accelerates
most favorably the processes of rebuilding.

The length of time which ought to be devoted to sleep has long been a subject
for comment. Frederick the Great, Napoleon, John Wesley, and the Duke of
Wellington, to cite four of several notable instances, were able to refresh
themselves completely with four hours' sleep. Shall the business man attempt to
follow their example?

Thomas A. Edison is a business man who does this. Indeed, he considerably
lessens this four hour period upon occasion. At the age of sixty-seven he once
worked twentytwo hours daily for forty consecutive days, but in an answer given
just after undergoing this ordeal he explained to his questioner a matter which
usually is overlooked entirely in the discussions concerning the number of
sleeping hours required, namely, the conditions under which one sleeps.

"When I lie down," said Mr. Edison, "I go to sleep almost instantly—within a
minute. It seems as if when I lie down my brain is automatically turned off. I
have tried, sometimes, to think in bed, only to discover that I could not do
it. I fall asleep. And, when I sleep, I do not toss and dream as do those
people who eat too much—I am dead to the world until it is time to get up. And,
when I wake up, I do not have to wait until I have washed my face with cold
water to feel that I am awake—I am wide awake and ready for business as soon as
I open my eyes.

"But the real reason why I can do with so little sleep is that a healthy man
requires little sleep."

The number of hours a person should sleep depends upon the amount of fatigue
within his body to be cleared away and the rapidity with which his system works
at this task of recuperation. There is no set rule which will hold for
everybody. The vigorous individual who comes to bed with a body only moderately
fatigued and with strong powers of recuperation may get along very well with
four hours. The neurasthenic may bring his body to bed so poison laden and
possess such limited powers of recuperation that ten, even twelve, hours are
none too much.

Since undersleeping leaves the system still poisoned and oversleeping cannot
possibly have a weakening effect, the general rule is to sleep as much as you
can. In applying this rule, however, careful attention should be given the
conditions of the sleep itself. As these conditions are improved the length of
time required an steadily be cut down. This method is a practical one for
adding an hour or two daily to our resultgetting time.

Sleeplessness and Its Cure

The rule of "sleep all you can" is to many men, unfortunately, hard to follow.
Apparently they cannot sleep as many hours as they should in order to feel
fully refreshed. A few, the more serious cases, are victims of insomnia, men
who face the day with listlessness and to whose mind the thought of the coming
night only adds deeper depression.

In good health, moderate fatigue and the objective mind, sleeplessness has
three excellent antidotes. If the sufferer claims that this suggested remedy
merely puts him inside a vicious circle, where the lack of health and
objective-mindedness, for example, prevent sleep, and lack of sleep makes
impossible health and objectivity, it may also be pointed out that an
improvement in any one of these respects serves him as a vantage ground from
which to advance himself in another direction. One may mount by friendly
circles as well as descend by vicious circles.

Concrete measures which may be commended are these: keep the digestion in good
order, take light exercise before retiring, bathe the feet for ten minutes or
so in very hot water, assume a comfortable position in bed, close the eyes
gently, and become so lazily relaxed that falling asleep is about all the mind
cares to do. In so far as is possible without being too energetic about it,
avoid worry, excitement, overstrain, grief, emotional shock, remorse, fixed
ideas of one kind or another, and morbid fear, especially the auto-suggestion
that sleep is impossible.

This latter, the auto-suggestion that sleep is impossible, haunts many people,
as Dr. McComb points out. "They are obsessed with the fear of not sleeping.
They have had experience of bad nights, and, anticipating that the coming night
will be like the others, they spend their time thinking of the terrible
consequences which will result from failure to sleep. That is, of course, all
wrong. Let the sufferer dissipate this evil fancy by the reflection that few
nights' bad sleep is productive of no great injury; that if only nature be
permitted a change, the instinct of sleep will reassert itself. He will do
well, then, to approach his time of rest with an air of indifference, of
absolute trust in the processes of nature. Let him say to himself: 'Whether I
sleep or not tonight is a matter of no great moment. Why then worry?'"

The Gospel of Relaxation

A refreshing sleep constitutes but the first step in our program of "vacations
daily." The second step, a matter likewise of decided efficacy in keeping a
person safely within the low fatigue zone, we shall refer to as relaxation.

A Scottish physician, the most eminent nerve specialist in his country, Dr.
Clouston, upon visiting this country many years since gave this as his belief.
"You Americans," he said, "wear too much expression on your faces. You are
living like an army with all its reserves engaged in action. The duller
countenances of the British population betoken a better scheme of life. They
suggest stores of reserve nervous force to fall back upon, if any occasion
should arise that requires it. This inexcitability, this presence at all times
of power not used, I regard," continued Dr. Clouston, "as the great safeguard
of our British people. The other thing in you gives me a sense of insecurity,
and you ought somehow to tone yourselves down. You really do carry too much
expression, you take too intensely the trivial moments of life."

The overwrought physiques observed by the doctor, whose testimony in this
respect admits of corroboration almost everywhere in business, induce a
similarly overwrought condition of the mind. What are the effects upon mental
economy?

Conservation versus Waste

Business man A and business man B, bound for their respective offices in the
city, enter the suburban station at the same time Monday morning. The train,
they discover, is to be ten minutes late. A in ill mood proceeds to walk up and
down the platform, pulls out his watch every minute or two, consults his
time-table, drums upon the platform with his cane, and glances anxiously up the
track. B walks up and down the platform also but slowly and serenely, with
evident relish over this opportunity to lengthen by a few minutes his morning
constitutional and apparently oblivious to the fact that there are such things
as trains to be caught. Yet he leaves that station quite as promptly as A.

Once on the train, A sits on the edge of the seat, his body rigidly alert to
every motion of the car and his mind ready to chafe at any sign of fresh delay.
He tears through the morning paper, consults both time-table and watch
incessantly, and vows vengeance upon the railroad company which dares to cause
him such annoyance as this particular, inexcusable lateness; he will move away
and give them no further patronage. B sinks into his seat; he conserves his
energy through relaxation. Yet both men leave the city station together.

Conservation versus Waste—Results

The two executives are soon dispatching the day's work, hour after hour. The
time at length arrives when A, finding himself completely exhausted and bearing
in mind the need for exercise, hurries over to a gymnasium. He will put his
muscles through their required program in short order. This to his mind
represents exercise although, as Dr. Woods Hutchinson well points out, "what
the average business man or office worker is doing, when he rushes through his
gymnasium cyclone fashion, chins himself fifteen or twenty times, jumps at the
parallel bars, or swings on the horizontal bar for five minutes, smashes the
medicine ball back and forth, hammers himself purple in the face on the
punching bag, runs ten times around the racing gallery, and takes a hot shower
bath and a rub-down all in eighteen and a half minutes, is simply loading
himself to the bursting point with fatigue poisons of muscular effort and
allowing no time for their elimination. He comes to the gymnasium from his
office with his blood loaded with the fatigue toxins of brain work. He adds to
them a greater amount of the muscle fatigue poisons and goes on his way
rejoicing, both barrels loaded with carbon dioxide instead of one as before." .

This represents A as he takes the train home. B has preceded him by two hours,
his day's work nicely cleared away and himself primed for the golf links.

A's wife that night is concerned over his wan appearance and wonders if some of
that new remedy advertised so extensively under a most impressive name is not
worth a trial in

order to improve his run-down condition. A himself admits he is overworking and
that business is a hard life. B's wife when she is about to call her husband to
dinner discovers him blissfully taking a nap.

Which clears away more tasks daily with fewer mistakes? Which will live longer
and more happily because more efficiently?

"Vacations daily" afford a simple means for keeping in the low cost zones of
fatigue which each business man has almost constant "opportunity to utilize.
When obliged to wait, relax. When riding on a train or trolley car, relax. When
sitting in the office chair, relax. When at luncheon or at dinner, relax.
Eliminate from the muscular system all restless and unnecessary movements, keep
the brow unruffled, the respiration regular and full.

Relax; reach the mind through the body.

Repose as an Ideal

The average American, however, is rather proud than otherwise of his
overwrought state. His ideal is one of hustle, "pep," hurry, "get through in
spite of the consequences," and to his way of thinking, eagerness, br
:athlessness, the bottledlightning expression, are marks of efficiency. The
exact reverse is the case.

"It is your relaxed and easy worker," says William James, "who is in no hurry,
and quite thoughtless most of the while of consequences, who is your efficient
worker; and tension and anxiety, and present and future, all mixed up together
in our minds at once, are the surest drags upon steady progress and hindrances
to our success."

With a rough and ready zest our fathers pioneered a vast new country and
exploited its then apparently unlimited resources with a lavishness which could
not possibly continue for all time. We have read the handwriting upon the wall
and already are addressing ourselves to the conservation of our natural
resources.

With a lavishness rivaling the treatment accorded our supplies of iron, coal,
lumber, and fertile soil our people have heretofore expended their resources of
brain and muscle. This also must cease if we are to endure as a virile people.
We must reshape our ideals'and, instead of admiring restlessness, over-anxiety
and breathless rush, become living examples of harmony, reserve, and repose.

The Elimination of Distractions

In the making of repose an ideal in business, the executive can proceed along
certain definite lines, none of which, very probably, will impress him as
containing any startling possibilities but all of which combined are able to
secure him results of decided significance.

The elimination of distractions is one of these means. Many executives,
particularly those in subordinate positions, suffer far more than they realize
in this way. The room may be noisy. It is possible of course to hold the mind
to its own business while various other things are going on, but it is
inevitably at the cost of some strain. The wear and tear of the noisy city life
on every inhabitant is a fact realized when a person gets out into the country;
the quiet often brings an actual shock to an urbanite's nerves.

The head of the welfare department of one of the largest concerns of the
country, a man who is an authority on the education and care of employees, has
two particularly noisy typewriters, one on each side of his desk. He keeps one
or both of them busy most of the time even when conversing with a visitor. He
himself is a strong-voiced, robust individual and apparently has never
considered the wasteful nervous effort exerted by himself and his visitor in
overcoming the racket of the machines.

Then there are eye distractions. A certain large organization has adopted the
dubious policy of massing its forces in a few huge rooms, the department heads
with the rest. The head of one of the departments has contrived, however, to
turn his desk, which is built up with piles of books, etc., so as to shield
himself from the view of the room. He did this in self-defense, because he had
to shut out the sight of other people in order to do his own thinking. One
device which can be tried anyyhere by one who cannot ignore eye distractions is
that of merely closing the eyes.

Cases Decided Once for All

The noise of typewriter or phone very commonly distracts a man less than the
reappearance of decisions once made but which, like Banquo's ghost, do not
down.

The executive has in his program of the day's work a variety of topics and
callers scheduled for the attention due them. Unless these "decided" items are
to be thieves, they must upon receiving the attention due them make their
exits. Decisions once made should afterwards be a closed book.

The trying of doubtful cases over and over again—unless new and essential data
have been secured since the decision was originally made—condemns a man to a
treadmill existence. This cannot be tolerated by the executive who aspires to
bigger things, since the swinging of these bigger things requires that
decisions be definitely made and business dispatched. It is these items
dispatched—not numberless deals hanging fire—which cultivate the feeling of
repose.

A Little Humor Now and Then

The inner tension, when it threatens to upset a man's equilibrium, calls for
humor as a safety valve. How many an angry look, how many useless quarrels and
heated arguments, have been dissolved into pleasant occasions by the power of
laughter! See the humorous side of things, tell a joke, laugh your troubles
away.

The seventy-five-year old Collis P. Huntington—a man of masterful personality,
a pioneer and builder of railroads, who spared neither himself nor
others—replied to the reporter who asked him how it was he kept so young
looking and "spry;" "Never too busy to hear a joke or to tell one." This recipe
was in effect the same one employed by the greatest burdenbearer this country
has yet known, Abraham Lincoln. When Civil War difficulties threatened to crush
him, Lincoln told a joke.

This suggestion is not in the least a plea for flippancy, but rather a protest
against taking one's work too solemnly. The expert, whether he be on the golf
links or seated at the president's desk, should present less the appearance of
awe-inspiring solemnity than of easy confidence. A twinkle in the eye augurs
well for the man who would go far.

The Spirit of Youth

The man who approaches his tasks with an easy confidence and plays the game
with zest will possess something of that spirit of youth which executives,
creators of projects and pushers, too, must needs possess if they are long to
survive. "Young men for action—old men for counsel," the proverb says. The
marvelous executives who made and during the Great War directed the tremendous
new army organizations in England and France were mature men with young bodies.

Consider Sir Eric Geddes, when first Lord of the Admiralty, in the recent
coalition English "government by business." He filled two "super-man-size" jobs
because of the sheer, dynamic power of his personality. "It is characteristic
of the man," wrote Isaac F. Marcosson in the Saturday Evening Post, "that he
never permits a job to master him. He does the conquering. Part of his
administrative creed is to organize his work so thoroughly that it can run
without him." Sir Eric was at that time forty-two years old, six feet two in
height, and the very incarnation of youthful power and energy. He was also
Director General of Transportation in France and Director of Military Railways
at the War Office. He literally took up a whole railway system in England and
laid it down in France.

Young bodies, such men have, and what is more, young minds, young hearts! Youth
dares anything; it has never known defeat or humiliation. And youth fronts life
with gaiety; a young face is a laughing face. The grown man, especially if he
is in a position of responsibility, has become wary; he thinks rather of the
obstacles, the odds against him, the need of waiting for reinforcements.
Moreover, work to him is a sober thing. He gets no fun out of it and his face
shows it.

But the big man—no matter how often he has been defeated—retains throughout his
career somewhat of the spirit of youth—its enthusiasm, its easy confidence, its
dash and zest.

Fads versus Common Sense

The ideals of mental economy which have been discussed so far and the concrete
means required for putting them into practical operation constitute a
matter-of-fact program. The same statement applies to the discussion of
physical energy in a preceding chapter. Nevertheless, the attainment of good
health, physically and mentally, is so greatly to be desired and at the same
time something about which the average man finds it difficult to reason
scientifically, that no other subject, save possibly religion, has been more
responsible for pet theories, fads and delusions. The man in the street has
imbibed all sorts of non-scientific notions as a part of his early childhood
lore and in the matter of his physical and mental well-being still acts upon
fallacies often of the most flagrant sort. Some

of these are cited, though necessarily a small per cent of those which daily
pass as sound advice.

1. "Brain Foods." It is an old illusion that certain foods are "brain foods,"
the usual assumption being that fish is the food par excellence; and not a few
assiduously continue thus to feed their stomachs in the vain hope that by so
doing geniuslike thoughts will eventually flower in the brain. The fisheating
peoples of the world, so far as the evidence of history and statistics goes,
show no preponderance in mental ability.

The manufacturers of certain foods, which it may be added are often very good
in themselves although unusually high in price, at times use this "brain"
appeal in selling the credulous. Cheese, for example, is a good brain food
although it does not become more so when branded with a formidable name and
sold for a dollar a pound.

The fact is, the brain does not jealously reach down into the stomach to claim
a certain food as its own, but feeds from the general store which through the
stomach walls and intestines pours into the blood. All foods, consequently,
which meet the best dietetic standards are brain foods.

2. Quantitative Energy Producers. It is a common delusion that the mere taking
into the body of large quantities of food and air develops physical and mental
force.

It does not suffice merely to breathe vast quantities of air into the lungs,
nor to overload the stomach. Energy is developed in the cellular tissues from
products transported there by the blood, and that food or air which does not
get into the blood through normal processes is still outside the body to all
practical purposes. The food must be digested and the air absorbed into the
blood, before either is of the slightest avail.

3. Fallacious Vacations. "Going away somewhere" is not synonymous with
"vacation," popular beliefs notwithstanding.

The plaint is often made at the close of a vacation, "I am more tired than if I
had worked every day!" This may be quite true; one's regular routine thrown
topsy-turvy and days of license indulged in do not constitute re-creation. The
true vacation is closely correlated with rest conditions, and only incidentally
with "going away somewhere."

4. The "Overwork" Delusion. That overwork is the cause of illness or
depression, especially in one's own case, is a belief with which countless
persons deceive themselves.

"Most people who are 'overworked' are, more properly speaking," says Irving
Fisher, "simply the victims of bad air, bad diet, poisons, and worry. They
believe that because they are tired it must be work which is hurting them. They
are undoubtedly working beyond their working capacity; but their working
capacity is only a fraction of what it would be if they took exercise, were not
constipated, did not eat too much, abjured alcohol, or ceased to worry
continually. If they lived hygienically in these respects, the work which was a
drag might be an inspiration."

5. "Health Thoughts." The view that inasmuch as mind controls body health
thinks are a panacea, is a prevalent fad.

The mind does control the body to an extent far surpassing what might be judged
off-hand; hence the crop of pseudo sciences, extravagant in their claims,
perennial in their "discoveries." But while mind does influence body, body in
turn influences mind; in fact, the two act and react upon each other most
intimately. Hence in answer to these pseudo mental sciences we need only point
out that whereas 2 + 2 = 4, two alone can never equal four. Apostles of many
occultisms may take note!

6. "Patent" Health Builders. "Isms" and paraphernalia as the true road to
health, constitute another delusion most ingeniously exploited.

The simple things have nobody interested in exploiting their claims, but they
will continue to build up physical and mental vigor centuries after the
exponents of Dr. Blank's Health Foods, Dr. Simon's Electric Belt and Sampson's
Clothes Closet Gymnasium have lived out their allotted time. "Any system of
physical culture," says Dr. Woods Hutchinson, "which does not include at least
from two to four hours' gentle exercise a day in the open air, three square
meals, and plenty of sleep is of the Evil One."

7. Long Suffering Credulity. Finally there is the persistent delusion that any
health "system" is worth a trial.

How else could we account for the never-ending fads in diet, chewing, exercise,
clothing? The propounders of these fads very commonly are invalids and from
what little conclusive evidence we have of them, viz., their own death rates,
they are what an insurance company terms poor life risks. Those who devote
themselves to such fads are simply taking chances. This means learning only by
trial and error, the slowest and most costly of all learning processes. The
wise man uses foresight, he reasons in advance what the effects will be; and
there is the same need in health culture as elsewhere to employ this eminently
practical method.

Exercises

"Planning" Mental Effort

The difference between old-world, rule-of-thumb methods and the pioneer type of
mind has been illustrated by this story: There was once a piece of work that
would take about six days to finish with the tools at hand. The old world
workman contemplated it steadily and not very thoughtfully for several minutes,
then he went at it methodically but stoically and did it in just the same way
at exactly the same speed as was his custom. He finished the piece of work in
six days.

The pioneer sat and looked at his task for quite a while. "Durn it," he
thought, "that'll take me six or seven days." He thought all the first day and
the second and most of the third. Then he began to make himself some new tools.
They were ready on the sixth day. Early the next morning the pioneer went to
work and at sundown the job was done. It took him seven days to attain his end
but—he had a set of new and better tools. With these, ever afterwards he could
accomplish the six days' task in one.

The mental economist is like the pioneer. He prefers not, like the average man,
to blunder along somehow, wasting his time and effort unproductively, worried,
distracted, and working in the high-cost fatigue zones; but by taking thought
in advance to devise for himself standards of conservation which ever
afterwards serve him well.

[table][merged small]

Pioneer methods, that is, carefully thought out standards, are in the end
always the most economical.

Let us see how we can proceed to make certain of these conservation standards
now our own.

A Self-Grading Chart

Test Chart 18 is to be used in the same way as was Test Chart 17. Credit
yourself daily with a "2" for each item conscientiously observed, a zero for
those neglected or violated, and a "yi," a "1," or a "lyi" for those partially
observed. General good behavior during a week or some especially meritorious
act of mental economy is to receive two additional credits, 100 credits
representing a perfect score.

What record do you score as a conserver of your nervous and mental resources?

The discussion in this chapter of introspection versus objectivity emphasizes
the spirit in which Test Chart 18, as well as the various other forms in this
book, should be approached. As a first step to better methods you should know
what your present methods are. Upon this information as a basis better methods
will be devised, whose improvements when made ought to be recorded. But the
purpose of the forms will be vitiated if you turn into a mere destructive
self-critic. Let self-analysis always be followed by positive plans; put the
emphasis upon improvement and the definite methods through which this
improvement can be reached. Used in this \ ay, the forms will make definite
your program and afford incentive.

PART VII

PERSONAL FINANCE

Experience has proved that it is not safe to lend money to men who have not
proved their ability to save money.

—Joseph French Johnson.

In city and in country, from the captains of finance to the smallest units in
the army of business, in transportation, in manufacturing, in trading, even in
farming, the corporation has come to be recognised as the best form yet
discovered for organising the production of wealth.—William H. Lough.

This is the time for America to correct her unpardonable fault of wastefulness
and extravagance. — Woodrow Wilson.

CHAPTER XIX

THE POWER OF FINANCE

It is of no use to have big ideas if you have not the cash to carry them out.
—Cecil Rhodes.

Pushing a Business Project

The big ideas of which Mr. Rhodes speaks, and cash as well, were absent in the
case of Mary Elizabeth Evans, a girl of sixteen, who some fifteen years ago
with her widowed mother and three younger children was living on her
grandfather's farm near Syracuse, New York. The death of their grandfather had
thrown them on their own resources. The problem of clothes, education, and the
many other requirements of a growing family, was very difficult. The task of
solving the problem devolved on Mary Elizabeth.

To meet the situation, Mary Elizabeth possessed two valuable personal
qualifications, neither as yet recognized by her as a business asset. She was a
born candy-maker and a born executive. In addition, she was desperately anxious
to increase the family income. But what to do, she did not know. Her attitude
was one of "watchful waiting."

Her opportunity—though not recognized as such at the time—came in the form of a
house-party given by an old family friend in Syracuse. Mary Elizabeth wanted to
help, and her contribution took the form of home-made candy, sent in a neat box
and labeled "Mary Elizabeth's Candy." The candy made a "hit." It was good, it
was attractive, it was different from anything the guests had tasted before,
and inquiries soon drew its story from the willing hostess. She also
volunteered an opinion that orders would be gladly received. The guests were
interested and practically every one of them put in an order for a weekly box
of Mary Elizabeth's candy.

This was the starting-point of the "Mary Elizabeth" business. The candy was
made at home and delivered by the children, collections being made as the candy
was delivered. This little trade thus established grew, but grew slowly because
of the out of the way location of the "factory." It was too difficult for
would-be patrons to place orders and it was apparent that some more effective
method of selling and distributing was essential if the business was really to
amount to anything.

The "Help Yourself" Plan

At this critical time it was suggested to Mary Elizabeth that a booth could be
rented on easy terms in the Arcade of the University Building. This would give
a central and desirable location in Syracuse. The rental was within reach and
the opening attractive, but how was attendance to be provided for? Mary
Elizabeth herself had the candy-making to look after; the other children were
too young; a paid attendant was beyond their means. An implicit trust in human
nature finally solved the problem. The customers must serve themselves.

The booth was rented, neatly fitted up, and stocked with an attractive display
of candy, every box plainly labeled with its price. An open cash box was
provided and suitable signs notified the passers-by to help themselves and put
the money in the box. Change to the amount of two dollars was placed in the
cash box for the convenience of customers and the new venture was launched.

The success of the "help yourself" booth was immediate. The excellence of the
candy, the attractiveness of the display, the entire novelty of its method,
brought a liberal and increasing patronage. The contents of the cash-box
sometimes ran up as high as fifteen dollars. Customers, neighboring tenants and
even the newsboys who sold papers in the Arcade, vied

with one another in the protection of Mary Elizabeth's property, and the
promotion of her business.

Growth of the Business

The success of the booth soon supplied the funds and the basis for a larger
candy shop located near the Arcade. This store, conducted on the same principle
of giving value received, always meeting the demands of its patrons, of being a
little different from other stores, was as successful on a larger scale as the
booth had been; and from that time on the Mary Elizabeth record is one of a
very successful, selffinancing undertaking.

At the present time, the business is a large one. Its candy stores and tea
rooms are located in half a dozen different cities. The rental for one of these
alone—the Fifth Avenue store in New York City—amounts to $45,000 a year, and
the annual "turn-over" of the various establishments runs far up in the
hundreds of thousands of dollars. Mary Elizabeth remains at the head of the
establishment founded so humbly some fifteen years ago, and it is still
conducted on the same general lines laid down in the early history of the
undertaking.

In Business for Oneself

The little candy-maker succeeded in doing successfully that which men in large
number long to do—launch a profitable enterprise of their own. Most men of
ability, in fact, would rather work for themselves than for others. "I would
give anything to go into business for myself," declared a high official
recently, a man who stands in the highest ranks of New York's leading railroad
system. "After twenty years of working for some one else, I feel very strongly,
at times, that I want to be absolutely independent." This statement was made by
a man whose salary runs into five figures. He is enthusiastically interested in
his work, and gets on well with his associates. But to "be one's own boss" is
often a greater attraction to the executive type of man than to work for
another—even when independence results in lessened earnings.

The growing size and complexity of modern undertakings diminishes the
opportunities for the one-man business, or the partnership in which men are
their own bosses. It is to be noted, however, that almost every big business of
the present day has grown from small beginnings and that it happens in the
career of most executives that at one time or another they see the opportunity
of running a business of their own. The task itself is complex and difficult,
that is certain, but by no means impossible.

Requisites of a Successful Enterprise

In the successful development of a new enterprise three things are essential:

1. A sound undertaking.

2. Efficient management.

3. Sufficient capital.

The order in which the three factors are listed above represents their
importance. A sound undertaking, efficiently managed, will—unless the odds are
too heavy—overcome the handicap of insufficient working funds. It may also
survive a period of inefficient management and be rescued from disaster by a
change in its executive force. But a business which is unsound at the core must
fail sooner or later.

Testing the Soundness of an Enterprise

The necessity for a sound undertaking is apparent. When a man starts in a line
in which he has already had a wide experience and knows its possibilities he is
generally a good judge of its worth. In some cases, however, a business must be
tested or even developed before its soundness or unsoundness can be determined.
Money is frequently thrown away because no thorough investigation is made of
the enterprise itself, or of the future possibilities of the market or of the
supply of the materials or other essentials upon which the life of the
enterprise depends.

The importance of testing out and selecting the most feasible project was
discussed in Part IV; "The Thinker in Business." Generally speaking, the value
of almost every new enterprise may be investigated or put to test in advance of
operation at a small fraction of the cost required to try it out on a
commercial scale. The man who believes in the future of a business should have
actual tested facts on which to base his belief.

The Factor of Management

Given a sound plan or project to start with, the problem of its management is
the next important consideration. Usually the young man starting in business
for himself or interested in a venture or side line of his own, thinks that
capital is the next essential of success, but this is not so. A sound
undertaking, if managed by men whose integrity and ability are known and
proved, will always be able to attract the capital required to finance it. The
enterprise may be meritorious, the money supply may be ample, but every banker
and investor knows that without good management the business will fail.

In speaking before a group of Wall Street financiers who were discussing the
possibility of obtaining the very large sum of money required to carry out a
project under consideration a prominent banker said: "Gentlemen, this matter of
money is the least thing we have to think about! There is only one problem.
Where are we to find the man big enough to handle the job? I speak as a banker
and not in my personal capacity when I tell you that if you will show me the
right man to put through the plans we are discussing, you need not give the
money a single thought." The financing of the project was to him a
comparatively simple problem. The finding of the right kind of man to handle it
was the difficult matter.

Sufficient Capital

The third essential, sufficient capital, is the one with which we are here
primarily concerned. The reader, it is assumed, has his profit-making project
in mind; he is thoroughly convinced he can manage it; but where can the
necessary funds be secured? This is the problem to which the next chapters are
devoted.

CHAPTER XX

THRIFT AS A WORKING POLICY

Your ship can't come in unless you send one out.

Financial Preparedness

The number of persons who believe that they could make a fortune if only they
"had the money" is astonishingly large. Opportunities appear; they are
detected, but owing to financial unpreparedness they cannot be grasped. The
difficulty and how certain men with such notable success have solved it,
appears well illustrated in the following incident drawn from the early career
of H. C. Frick, the "coke king" and multimillionaire.

In company with two partners, Rist and Tinstman, Frick had early engaged in the
coke business. The panic of 1873, however, which littered the country with
financial wrecks, plunged the firm into bankruptcy and the two partners very
much desired to liquidate their holdings. Although young, relatively
inexperienced, and already burdened with more debt than capital, Frick so
believed in the future of the coke business that he sought out Pittsburgh's
principal banker and staggered him with the size of the loan he wished to
negotiate.

Mr. Forbes, in "Men Who Are Making America," tells the story as follows:

Judge Mellon sent a man (an uncle of W. E. Corey) to Broad Ford to investigate
the character and caliber of this daring Napoleon of finance. Instead of
finding H. C. Frick to be one of the leading citizens of the place, living in
sumptuous style and owning a wealth of property, the investigator discovered
him to be merely a youth of 24, employed as

a bookkeeper and living, not in a mansion, but in two small
rooms over a drug store. Inquiry elicited the facts that the
young man was held in the highest regard, that his industry
and ability were the common talk of the place, and that his
handling of the new coke concern had proved both able and
successful. Judge Mellon, instead of feeling disappointed
over the humble circumstances of the would-be borrower,
decided that a young man of such enterprise, talent, and
courage, with horse sense enough to live on a few dollars
a week in order to increase his capital, deserved to be helped.
So the loan was granted.

Not only did Frick buy out his two partners, but he gath-
ered in other properties at bankruptcy figures. Frick's readi-
ness to buy or lease other coal lands and coke properties—
the whole coke industry amounted to only a few hundred
ovens—caused the townspeople to look upon him as a
lunatic. . . .

The return of financial calm found Frick the sole owner of Frick & Company.
Output rose above fifty tons a day and the price went from ninety cents to
above two dollars; later (1879-80), when the boom set in, coke soared to above
five dollars a ton, and every day the sun rose Frick sold over $30,000 worth of
the fuel and pocketed a net profit of over $20,000.

Building Solidly

The business man with his enterprise under way needs, even after his own powers
of brain and physique have been developed to their utmost, certain
reinforcements if he is to attain a really notable career. He has to utilize
capital for this reason. Inevitably the alert, forward-looking executive sooner
or later is a seeker of funds.

The seeker of funds in the person of H. C. Frick was a man who had thoroughly
mastered his financial A B C's. He had learned, never to be forgotten, the
essential rudiments of the financier's language and he had practiced finance's
basic virtues. Those whom he approached for funds, recognized that he knew full
well the value of a dollar. The business man uses the dollar as the unit that
measures his capital. It stands as the measure of his plant, his equipment, his
stock-in-trade, his armament for the competition of commerce. If he does not
realize its value, its power, its force, he will not know how to use it, how to
handle it, how to care for it. Unless some other has earned it for him, he is
not likely, in such case, ever to have much to use, and so will fail to hold
his own, for lack of tools to work with, weapons to fight with, and capital
with which to command success.

American Habits of Waste

The basis of financial power is laid in those elementary habits of prudent
spending and wise saving, which boys should, though unfortunately they do not
with anything like the thoroughness desired, receive as an essential part of
their early training. Prevalent habits too commonly are opposed to such
soundness of financial training.

"Americans are the most reckless spenders in the world," says the president of
Sears, Roebuck and Company, Julius Rosenwald. "The average man in this country
is spending every dollar he makes and maybe more."

$500,000,000 annually is the waste represented by our smoking factory chimneys.

$30,000,000 worth of waste paper, approximately, is burned in the United States
every year.

$2,500,000 is spent for suppers, theaters, cabs, liquors, tips, and the like,
in New York City on New Year's Eve. Since every community has its counterpart
of New York's "Great White Way," this extravagance and folly is widespread.

The value of thrift during the Great War was accentuated among citizens of
every belligerent country. Yet the struggle for a higher plane of living and
the need for capital are with us always; we need no war to teach us to practice
the commandments of an enterprising frugality. Thrift is a virtue, whose
services the personal manager can always find it worth while to utilize.

Value of Thrift

"If you want to know whether you are destined to be a success or a failure in
life, you can easily find out," said James J. Hill. "The test is simple and it
is infallible: Are you able to save money? If not, drop it. You will lose. You
may think not, but you will lose as sure as you live. The seed of success is
not in you."

Thrift is a security against adversity.

"Save a little of thy income," said Benjamin Franklin, "and thy hidebound
pocket will soon begin to thrive and thou wilt never cry again with empty
stomach, neither will creditors insult thee, nor want oppress, nor hunger bite,
nor will nakedness freeze thee. The whole hemisphere will shine brighter and
pleasure spring up in every corner of thy heart."

Thrift develops the business character.

"Extravagance rots character; train youth away from it," said Theodore
Roosevelt. "On the other hand, the habit of saving money, while it stiffens the
will, also brightens the energies. If you would be sure that you are beginning
right, begin to save."

Thrift helps to establish credit.

"Before you are taken into partnership and given a chance to spend the funds of
the firm," wisely declared Elbert Hubbard, "you must give evidence that you
know how to care for your own. The worthless, the shiftless, the insincere, the
always needy, never get ahead and at the bank they are unknown."

Thrift enables you to take advantage of opportunities.

This is its main service. It represents in operation the foundations of a
financial preparedness.

Plans Suggested for Saving

The thrift policy, however high it may eventually transport a man, has its
foundations in the humble and too frequently despised virtue of making small
savings. Since the desire to run before one has learned to crawl upsets many a
career, those who wish to get into the spirit of capital accumulation, to learn
its language, and to operate with it effectively, should resolve first of all
to become thrifty; more than that, resolve to practice some certain concrete
plans for saving until thrift has taken firm root as a habit.

Like nearly all of our positive activities, saving must first be accepted as a
principle of action and then followed persistently until it becomes a habit.

There are several concrete plans for saving that are worth noting:

I. Saving from Income All Possible. A man may resolve that out of his earnings
he will always save as much as he possibly can. As a boy digging potatoes, Mr.
Rockefeller reached the conclusion that money was to be his slave and it is
clear that he early realized the importance of the habit of saving. In his
first position as clerk and bookkeeper he had earned from September 26, 1855,
to January, 1856, fifty dollars, out of which, he told the members of his
Sunday-school class years later, "I paid my washerwoman and the lady I boarded
with, and I saved a little money to put away." This careful financing, the
items of which the young man daily recorded in the small ledger which has since
figured in its owner's religious instructions, proved solid as a foundation for
the credits he later sought. Mr. Rockefeller had the ambition to get on so
firmly ingrained that it was probably easier for him to put by every cent he
could spare than to spend it on self-indulgence.

Those of social habits, surrounded by free-spending companions, and in whom the
will to save is not well developed, probably will find the plan to save all
that is "possible" too general for them. The plans which follow are more
definite and put a person under closer restraint.

II. Saving a Definite Sum or Percentage. A man can calculate how much of his
income he requires to pay living expenses and how much he should lay away. Then
each time he receives his salary or other income, he will set aside and
religiously put away that amount (preferably in a savings account). Or instead
of a definite sum it can be a definite percentage, as 10 per cent or 20 per
cent of all earnings. To carry this plan out effectively is easier for most men
and will produce better results than to leave the amount to be saved
indefinite.

The man who has decided that upon the receipt of his salary check each month
$5, $20, $50, or whatever he has determined on, shall be set aside without
fail, has made a definite move toward financial independence.

III. Investing on the Partial Payment Plan. The flotation of successive Liberty
Bond issues has done much to popularize this plan of investment, although the
plan itself had already been in operation for several years. The terms of the
partial payment plan, because they are so extremely flexible, adapt themselves
to everyone's circumstances. The man with capital can invest it at once, and by
adding a part of his outside income regularly, finally become the owner of
bonds and sound dividend-paying stocks. It is therefore unnecessary to wait
until the money required for full payment has accumulated, because the
dividends paid on the securities are credited to the partial payment owner and
these dividends usually exceed in amount the interest charged on his net
indebtedness.

IV. The Plan of Cash Payments. In conducting a house

hold or in the matter of personal expenditures it is very convenient to have
accounts at one or more good stores and then buy as required and settle at the
end of the month.

The fact that this is so easy and convenient tempts a person in a simple yet
seductive way to live beyond his means. The salesman is persuasive, the time of
payment is far off, and it is so much easier to have the attractive articles
charged than to deny oneself and withstand the salesman's skilled appeal to our
desires. The consequence is that when the end of the month comes the head of
the house is appalled at the sum total of the charge accounts.

Advertising and salesmanship have become arts, taught in schools and through
text-books, and it has been well suggested that buyers should likewise be
instructed and warned so they can understand how they are persuaded into
purchases they do not need and prices they cannot afford.

Pending this course for buyers, the adoption of a rule to pay cash will have an
excellent effect in reducing expenses. Many things lose their appeal when cash
outright must be paid, and at times the less expensive article is found to be
equally good.

V. The Budget Plan for Controlling Expenditures. The budget when applied to
personal expenditures has two important advantages; it calls for planning and
it provides checks upon funds both received and spent. When all expenditures
are itemized and examined, unexpected wastes are revealed and opportunity is
afforded to secure more complete, because better planned, gratifications while
the savings fund is safeguarded.

The habit of mapping out and carefully deciding how income shall be apportioned
to the cost of living for an individual or for a household is of great
importance. The same principles prevail here that regulate budget-making for
businesses, municipalities, states, and governmental departments. This method
develops thrift, foresight, and economic intelligence. It necessitates the
classification of expenditures into necessary and discretionary. It reveals the
small and unconsidered expenses that mount up so astonishingly. It promotes a
wise spending and a judicious economy. In itself it is a business discipline
and training of intrinsic v?,,ie for every man and also every woman. To
estimate the proportionate amount of expenditure for the various items that
make up the cost of living is not particularly easy, but as a start it is
advisable to run over the outlays for the preceding year and divide them as
accurately as may be possible. One who has never done anything like this, will
have some surprises when he finds where his income has gone. Also, it will show
at once some directions in which economy is possible.

Then take the separate division and assign to each its proportion of next
year's income. In doing this begin with the most important. The figures given
below are for a suburb near Philadelphia, as prices were in 1917 for a family
of five with an income of $2,400. The same general budget can be worked out for
any scale of family expenditure.

"Operating expenses" are for fuel, light, laundry, medical and dental expense
and depreciation of household plant.

"Advancement" covers all expenditures for education, philanthropy, religious
causes, books, music, amusements, vacations, and social and community life.
Insurance and savings and additions to household equipment would come under
this head, unless a specific deduction for their purposes is made from income
before allotting the budget.

[merged small][ocr errors][merged small]

If the result exceeds the income or leaves but a negligible sum for savings it
is necessary to cut down and the analysis must proceed further. Food can be
divided and the amount computed for meat, fish, bread or flour, fruit, milk,
eggs, sugar, and so on. Before the war economies enforced a reform many
American families put a great many dollars into their garbage pails. A great
deal of money is expended for clothes that are unnecessary and bought without
much discretion.

The Family Standard of Living

The attempt to bring expenditures to a rational basis must, of course, proceed
with a due regard to one's social position and the whole range of interests
which make life worth while. Man is a gregarious and social animal and his life
and activities are to be spent with his fellows. His future success and
influence depend most largely on his ability to work and do business with and
among his fellows. To acquire any ease and facility in social life, one must
dress, live, and enjoy oneself as those do who are on the same plane. Many
social requirements and usages are unreasonable, not to say absurd, yet even
the wisest men have to be careful not to depart too far from the standard.

At the same time, if at the end of each month there is not quite enough to meet
all the bills; if an unexpected sickness means borrowing from a relative or a
friend; if the home life means stress and anxiety instead of rest and
contentment, then business efficiency is at stake and good executive work is
impossible. Mr. Micawber's sage reflection applies:

Annual income twenty pounds, annual expenditure nineteen pounds, nineteen
shillings, six pence; result—happiness. Annual income twenty pounds, annual
expenditure twenty pounds, aught, and six; result—misery. The blossom is
blighted; the leaf is withered; the God of day goes down upon the dreary scene,
and—and in short you are found floored.

The foregoing plans, taken as examples of the various methods a man can devise
for himself, indicate quite clearly that every one can save systematically and
that he can commence now.

The Productive Use of Funds

The policy of saving and careful scrutiny of expenditures, however meritorious
in itself and capable of practical operation, must not be permitted to destroy
a person's financial perspective. Otherwise, he trudges down the dusty highways
of business adding dimes and nickels to his store, whereas with perspective he
might have amassed a notable fortune. What is the role of saving in our scheme
of personal finance? "I do not mean to argue—I am not such a fool as to
argue—that it was by mere thrift that colossal fortunes have been accumulated,"
says the Earl of Rosebery, in speaking upon the question which has just been
raised; "but I am here to argue my profound faith that they were in the
commencement founded on thrift and on nothing but thrift, and that when by
thrift a small but substantial sum was accumulated, it was so utilized as to
amount to these enormous fortunes."

The policy of saving constitutes merely the foundation of our scheme of
finance, the training school in which the character is to be forged and the
language of finance learned. Upon this foundation the business man's
conspicuous gains are to be made through the productive use of capital.

Exercises

The attempt to introduce thrift into your affairs must not disregard the fact
that its real foundation is earnings and earning power. Question No. I in the
chart thus is highly significant. Does your showing, in your opinion, justify
20, let us say, as a grade?

No. 2 raises the question of what has become of the money you earned. Have you
gone through the world sieve-like or do you now have substantial accumulations?
Needless to say, the term assets does not refer to money only but rather what
you are worth all told. Suppose you have done 80 per cent as well as it appears
to you, all things considered, you should; then your grade is 8o%x2S or 20.

The close connection between thrift and readiness for opportunity has been
emphasized in the chapter. How do you rank here, on the basis of 15 for full
preparedness?

Do you appreciate a dollar for the full time, labor, and "going without" that
it should represent?

Are you wasteful by habit? Are you wasteful in business management? Do you
waste time, your own and subordinates'? Do you waste money? Do you waste
material? Do you waste brain effort? Do you use your intellect on the most
important things or on smaller matters? These are pretty broad questions.
Nevertheless, survey your doings and if perfect check in 15 credits!

The last question, No. 6, emphasizes balance, "neither a miser nor a
spendthrift be." Should you not get a 10 now, there is a chance to do so later
on.

[table][merged small]

CHAPTER XXI

THE ART OF INVESTING

Money can beget money, and its offspring can beget more, and so on.—Benjamin
Franklin.

The Business Man as an Investor

The business man in using his capital productively can either invest in other
men's enterprises or finance his own. Let us discuss the investment side first,
although it is often less important in practice than financing one's own
enterprises.

The investor, desiring to make his money work for him, finds such openings as
the following available:

1. Real estate mortgages

2. Loans on collateral

3. Savings bank deposits

4. Bonds

5. Preferred stocks

6. Common stocks

Each of these classes, again, contain securities of a wide variety. They may be
issued by national governments, states, municipalities, railroads, public
service corporations, banks, manufacturing and mining concerns, or any other of
the countless enterprises seeking funds; in grade they range from the wildcat
mining certificates scarcely worth the paper upon which they are printed, to
the bonds of the United States Government, a premier security.

Qualities of an Ideal Investment

The task of selecting from this wide variety the appropriate investment will be
simplified if attention is given the qualities upon which investments are to be
rated in desirability, viz., safety, income, marketability, appreciation, and
suitability. Judged by these standards, the ideal investment would be safe,
yield a high rate of income, command a market in which it is readily
convertible into cash, preserve a market price free from wide fluctuations,
afford good prospects of appreciating in value, and in general be suited to its
holder's particular requirements.

Needless to say, a security meeting to the one hundred per cent degree all
these tests cannot be found, hence in deciding upon the merits of various
issues submitted to him for purchase the investor accepts the last test as the
most important and rates the other qualities in the order of their value to him
personally. According to recent quotations of the New York Stock Exchange a
certain copper stock sold at a yield of 13.6 per cent and a railroad bond at
5.1 per cent, an industrial stock paying no dividends sold at $92 per share,
and a railroad stock once selling at $255 a share was quoted under $30. Which
would be purchased? That depends largely upon who purchased. In other words,
personal suitability is too often the important factor in buying securities.

Sources of Information as to Investments

In order to judge whether or not an offered investment meets his particular
needs, the investor should possess sound information. One regrets to say,
however, that the investor thus qualified is the exception, and it is also
unfortunately true as a rule that the less one has to invest the more difficult
it is to secure the full information needed. A man of means has friends who are
shrewd judges of investments, he receives no end of expert advice from bankers,
bond dealers, and brokers, and he has a full assortment from which to select. A
man whose orders are limited cannot so easily secure such attention.
Notwithstanding this is the case, certain reliable sources of information are
open to every investor and he can, if he will, learn a great deal about what he
is purchasing and keep in touch with it after it is purchased. Excellent books
are published on the subject and the financial papers will also be found very
useful.

The experience of investors, both successful and unsuccessful, seems to
indicate, when analyzed, certain elementary principles upon which good results
depend. These will now be stated.

I. Diversifying Investments

Andrew Carnegie's advice to "put all your eggs in one basket, then watch that
basket," no doubt is sound in so far as it concerns one's specialty; but the
business man is not an investment specialist and the division of risk through
diversification of purchases is accordingly with him the correct rule of
procedure.

The accompanying table, prepared with the needs of the business man in view,
shows how such diversification may be carried out. The yields on these issues
vary from time to time,

[merged small][table]

of course, in accord with investment conditions, but in general, as this table
has been arranged, these yields increase from top to bottom. Since there are
various grades of issues in the subgroups of this list, the investor should
secure from reliable financial publications and institutions the more detailed
information needed at the time of purchasing.

II. Buying Periods and Selling Periods

It is wise to shift from one type of security to another as prices fluctuate. A
comparison of the various grades of securities shows that, whereas all
securities fluctuate in price, certain classes fluctuate much less violently
than others. Giltedge bonds depreciate but little as a rule during a panic
whose violence causes fluctuations of perhaps $30 to $50 per share in the
common stocks of mining and industrial companies.

The average investor pays little attention to these price changes, his usual
practice being to place his securities in a safe-deposit box until they mature
or to sell them when alarmed over the business outlook or in need of money.
Nevertheless, the plan of selling out during a bull period his lower grade
securities and investing the proceeds in the giltedge division and during the
following period of depression reversing the process, is entirely feasible and
will net the investor a profit well worth his consideration.

III. Do Not Speculate

The investor who with discretion changes from one type of security to another
when prices fluctuate is certain to profit. Yet he runs the risk of becoming so
impressed by the swing of prices that the sense of ownership and the
self-control which accompanies it are lost and he becomes an out-and-out
speculator.

The investor's attitude toward his securities is that of ownership; the
speculator is interested primarily in taking advantage of price fluctuations
and he cares little or nothing for permanent ownership.

An abundance of experience has proved this statement true: Speculation is the
business of persons who know and the amateur who tries to play it without
experience and careful study will lose.

The business man could learn to speculate, and no doubt successfully, but he
already has chosen his occupation and changing to a career on Wall Street would
scarcely be worth his while. Let him stick to his own line and, be it in
merchandising, railroading, or manufacturing, as an expert there take shrewd
advantage of those changes which yield profits. In the field of the skilled
speculator, which is outside his specialty, let him maintain self-control and
refuse to stake hard-earned money on his ability to play another man's game.
The lamb in Wall Street is attempting against heavy odds to play another man's
game, which explains why, sooner or later, he always is shorn.

IV. Slow but Sure Investments

The itch for high yields has cut short many an investor's career, because it
emphasizes haste at the expense of orderly progress. Consider a compound
interest at four per cent: Ten dollars deposited weekly in a savings bank will
earn at four per cent $7.80 in interest, making a working capital of $527.80 at
the beginning of the second year. If the plan is continued, at the end of the
second year the total has become $1,076.70; at the end of the fifth year
$2,858.60; at the close of the tenth year $6,336.50. In fifteen years this
steady saving of ten dollars a week amounts to $10,567.90; in twenty years
$15,715.90; in twenty-five years $21,979.20. This sum in itself even though no
further deposits were made would earn $879.10 a year. Yet forty dollars a month
saved would

represent no serious effort on the part of great numbers of men.

Supposing the diversified investment that has been recommended yields only five
per cent and that nothing additional is gained through appreciation, a young
man who commences at the age of twenty-five to invest $1,000 annually will
build up the following snug fortune:

He will be worth $13,210 at the age of 35

[table]

Theoretically, get-rich-quick methods are an easy road to wealth. Actually, the
amateur who attempts such methods is shorn of his savings while the less
spectacular but systematic investor builds up a comfortable competence. When
tempted to "take a flyer" put compound interest to work!

V. Avoid All Get-Rich-Quick Schemes

The post office department estimates that for a long time the people of the
United States have lost by fraudulent schemes carried on through the mails
$100,000,000 annually. Worthless real estate developments, fake oil wells,
"worldbeating" inventions, "bonanza" mines, and the like, with gaudy
prospectuses and extravagant claims, have duped generations of credulous
investors. In their attempts to get something for nothing these victims of the
get-rich-quick schemer, it is needless to say, have ignored sound information,
for the truth as it is never stirs the fancy of such gullible people. They are
the dupes in reality of their own cupidity and ignorance.

The more experienced the investor the better qualified he is to deal in
speculative issues such as industrial common stocks, junior bonds, securities
undergoing reorganization, and mining stocks. Yet strange as it may seem such
skilled investors are most in the habit of buying issues of high grade, whereas
the unskilled are found putting their money into the most risky issues. It
seems to be a case of fools rushing in where wise men fear to tread.
Occasionally the rash speculator will quite by accident make a considerable
winning, but the chances are hopelessly against him and in the long run it is
not he but the conservative investor who amasses a competence.

Exercises

Some Personal Questions as to Investing Money

George Horace Lorimer in "Letters from a Self-Made Merchant to His Son," says,
"Whenever anyone offers to let you in on the ground floor, take an elevator to
the roof at once."

How much have you lost so far hy investing in mines, patents, rubber
plantations, etc.? Have you personally known anyone who has so parted with his
money? Have you personally known anyone who made a profit on such ventures?

Is it wise to try to buy when the market is low and sell when it is high? How
much time should be devoted to watching the markets for this purpose? Would a
man's employer be favorably impressed by this outside interest? Why not?

Enumerate some investments that are safe. Some that can be readily turned into
cash. How high a rate of interest or of dividends can be had in moderately safe
securities? What is the objection to putting money into mortgages on real
estate? Into loans on collateral? Into investments on real estate?

In Francis Cooper's work on "Financing an Enterprise" a chapter is devoted to
"The Investor's Questions." These questions are comprehensive and are planned
to cover broadly all those points upon which the investor has a right to be
informed. Lack of space precludes their inclusion here, but it may be said that
anyone reading that chapter before investing will be astonished to find how
much he should know and how little he has been told of the essential matters
relating to the proposed investment.

What are the advantages of so-called "slow investments"?

CHAPTER XXII

THE FINANCING OF A BUSINESS

The ideal conditions for the financing of an enterprise involve a good
proposition, well presented at the right time to people who have money to
invest, by a man who commands their business and personal confidence.—Francis
Cooper.

Where the Real Profits Are

The chapters which have preceded deal with matters which while essential are
often merely stepping stones toward that all-important matter for the young
business man, i.e., the financing of a business. The three essentials of a
successful enterprise, it may be recalled, are:

1. A sound undertaking.

2. Efficient management.

3. Sufficient capital.

Having schooled himself in the A B C's of finance—the careful saving, thrift,
and scrutiny of expenditures—and having learned the investor's viewpoint
through first-hand experience, the young business man now turns to the problem
of obtaining sufficient capital with a considerably increased assurance.

Methods of Financing

When a business man has the means it would seem natural for him to finance out
of his own funds any enterprise in which he is interested. Yet cautious and
conservative business men do not always care to do this. A man may believe in a
proposition, and he may feel sure the chances are all in its favor. He knows,
however, that the best laid plans of men and mice "gang aft aglee." If he has
lost some of the energy and optimism of youth he will see risks and
possibilities of failure, and he prefers to spread the risk, even though in so
doing he may also spread the profits.

The young man on the other hand usually prefers to take all the risk and retain
for himself all the possibilities of profit. Usually though he has not
sufficient capital of his own to float his enterprise unless he is content to
begin in a very humble way and work up by gradual development and must perforce
offer to others a share in the enterprise. This share may take the form of a
partnership or a stock holding.

The three methods of financing a business most commonly employed are as
followsr

1. Borrowing at interest.

2. Sharing profits among partners.

3. Forming a corporation.

Rockefeller a Shrewd Borrower

The ability which John D. Rockefeller has displayed in borrowing money accounts
for not a little of his remarkable financial success. In the early days when
Mr. Rockefeller in partnership with a Mr. Andrews entered into the refining of
oil, the firm's capital was limited and the rapid growth of the business found
the two partners often needing money. It was the senior partner, low-voiced,
soft-footed, humble, knowing every point and every man's business, "smooth," "a
savvy fellow," as the neighbors described him, who then set out to borrow and
rarely if ever did he fail.

"There is a story handed down in Cleveland from the days of Clark and
Rockefeller, produce merchants, which is illustrative of some of his methods.
One day a well-known and rich business man stepped into the office and asked
for Mr. Rockefeller. He was out and Clark met the visitor. 'Mr. Clark,' he
said, 'you may tell Mr. Rockefeller, when he comes in, that I think I can use
the $10,000 he wants to invest with me for your firm. I have thought it all
over.'

"'Good God!' cried Clark, 'we don't want to invest $10,000. John is out right
now trying to borrow $5,000 for us.'

"It turned out that to prepare him for a proposition to borrow $5,000 Mr.
Rockefeller had told the gentleman that he and Clark wanted to invest $10,000!

"'And the joke of it is,' said Clark, who used to tell the story, 'John got the
$5,000 even after I had let the cat out of the bag. Oh, he was the greatest
borrower you ever saw!'"

Why Borrow

This episode concerning Mr. Rockefeller evidently in its teachings is at
variance with the old idea of borrowing—the sad result of misfortune, of
improvidence or prodigality, but in no case a legitimate business operation in
which both parties benefit.

This point of view is well expressed by Polonius to his son:

Neither a lender nor a borrower be,
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.

This advice of Polonius to his son is eminently sound if the young man was
extravagant and in danger of expending his money without adequate returns. Yet
this is not the business man's attitude toward borrowing. He borrows because
the money under his direction, he is convinced, will return more than its
interest charge. Upon this basis he appeals to possible lenders for funds.

Confidence a Business Asset

The chief test of one of the world's greatest lenders, J. Pierpont Morgan, was
that described by him shortly before his death: "I have known a man to come
into my office and

I have given him a check for a million dollars, and I knew he had not a cent in
the world." In other words, in the estimation of the greatest banking house in
this country, character was sufficient collateral upon which to loan a million
dollars.

Character was ranked by Mr. Morgan as the chief test but, needless to say, it
is not the only test. The sum total of these tests, in brief, is confidence—and
confidence is something which can be cultivated in the minds of those having
funds and can be developed by others with projects requiring from time to time
outside funds. In other words, credit is a plant whose growth can be nourished
by whoever sets about it properly. The detailed ways and means are exceedingly
numerous, but the general principle is clear—if you wish to borrow money,
develop the confidence in the minds of those who control funds that their money
will be safe in your hands and that they will receive a satisfactory return for
its use.

Borrowing for Business Purposes

Borrowing money to finance a business introduces the matter of regular fixed
charges for interest, with the attendant danger of foreclosure and loss of the
property in case these are not met when due. Yet under normal conditions it
permits the original parties to retain their control of the enterprise and the
rate charged is not serious compared to what the profits of the enterprise
should be. If on the other hand an enterprise ends in failure the loaning plan
is disastrous— far more so than if the money were secured as an investment in
the first instance. For this reason many business men with good credit and well
able to borrow all the funds they need, prefer to secure part of the capital
they require for the new enterprise as an investment and not as a loan. In this
way they divide up the risk. They do not look for failure but they recognize
its possibility in any enterprise no matter how sure a thing it may seem.
Therefore they prefer to lessen their own risks by sharing the profits to be
made rather than take the chance of total and perhaps disastrous loss in case
of failure. It is true that interest on money borrowed is usually less than the
profits of a successful business and that to give a share in the business for
the loan of capital often seems to promise a big return for a small favor.
There are other dangers connected with borrowing besides those mentioned above.
Loans and interest payments have a tendency to become due at inconvenient
times; or if left to run after they become due, may be called unexpectedly. If
not met they may be used as a means of forcing the business into bankruptcy and
buying it for a mere song. As a matter of fact loans are often made to the
owner of a promising enterprise with the hope or expectation that he will not
be able to repay the amount when due. If this happens the lender promptly
forecloses, the business is forced under the hammer or it becomes bankrupt, and
he buys it at a fraction of its real value. To secure properties in this way is
considered by those who engage in the practice to be smart business and
entirely legitimate. The fact that it is done and can be done should always be
borne in mind when loans are made. The agreement should provide for extensions
of time when necessary so that the borrower may have the opportunity to raise
funds elsewhere. In this way the first lender can be repaid if he insists upon
calling in the loan.

Financing By Means of Partnership

These limitations on borrowing cause oftentimes recourse to moneyed partners.
This is but a modification of the usual plan of securing money as an investment
in the enterprise—usually in the form of stock subscriptions—but it has some
special advantages and disadvantages of its own.

A very important point to be considered when a financing partner is to be taken
into a new undertaking is the fact that should the enterprise not reach the
point of self-support before its funds are exhausted—a contingency that
frequently occurs —the conditions are not favorable for securing further money.
Under such circumstances, each partner should, of course, contribute pro rata
according to his interest, but in practice the original owner is usually unable
to increase his investment and it not uncommonly happens that the "financing"
partner declines to increase his.

Sometimes the moneyed partner refuses because he thinks the management of the
business has been poor and that therefore the "working" partner, who is
responsible for this, should bear the burden of securing additional funds. At
other times, he declines from purely selfish reasons, thinking that the working
partner's interests are sufficiently large to force him to pull the enterprise
out somehow unaided. On rare occasions help is refused because the financing
partner hopes that the embarrassment of the business will result in conditions
which can be made to serve his own interests, possibly resulting in his
acquisition of the whole enterprise.

In any such case, the working partner must do the best he can. He may be able
to borrow, or he may have to make very material sacrifices of his own interests
to obtain the needed funds. In such case, if the enterprise is successful, he
will be able to recoup himself. It is, however, far better that the possible
need of more funds should be anticipated and provided for in advance by some
provision of the partnership agreement. It is better still to avoid the
contingency by the incorporation of the undertaking.

Selection of a Partner

It should be borne in mind that a partner has all the rights in the business
that the original owner has himself. He can interfere in the management of the
enterprise, run it into debt, if he sees fit. or make trouble in many other
ways.

All this is of no importance if the partner is known to be the right kind of a
man, who will shoulder his part of any burdens to be borne and who can be
depended upon to co-operate when needed and to do nothing when not needed. If,
however, there is any doubt as to the character or disposition of the
prospective partner, this close alliance should be avoided.

A man must be a good judge of character to be able to select the right kind of
man as partner. Two of the ablest men among the partners of the banking house
of J. P. Morgan were selected by the international banker solely because they
appealed to him as business men. Henry P. Davison, when vicepresident of a New
York bank received an invitation to call on Mr. Morgan at his private house at
three o'clock in the afternoon. He had met Mr. Morgan on two or three occasions
only and did not consider himself anything more than a casual acquaintance.
Promptly at three in the afternoon the young banker rang the bell of the
financier's residence and a few minutes later the two business men were talking
in the library. Morgan wasted no time in preliminaries: "Are you ready to
become my partner on January i?" he asked. The query nearly took Davison's
breath away. He parried in reply: "Mr. Morgan, have you ever fallen from an
eighteenstory building?" It was the financier's turn to be bewildered. "No," he
replied, "why do you ask?" "Well, neither have I. But I thought if you had you
would understand how I feel." Then Morgan laughed and a few minutes later the
matter was settled.

The Corporation

The partnership is the old, familiar system of business organization, easily
formed, as easily dissolved, informal, uncertain in action, and frequently
unsafe. Enterprises of large size are but seldom financed under the partnership
form. Its use for enterprises of any size is of doubtful wisdom.

The corporation, on the other hand, is an efficient and widely used system of
business organization. It is created by a charter, granted by the state upon
application of the interested parties. The corporation so created is for all
practical purposes an individual, carrying on business, making contracts and
suing or being sued in its own name. It is entirely separate and distinct from
its members who may die or withdraw without affecting the corporation. It is
subject to the general laws of the land and the special laws of the state just
as an individual.

The advantages of the corporate system are several. The first and most obvious
is the freedom it offers from the liability which characterizes the
partnership. A partner is liable for all debts of the partnership. In a
corporation a stockholder is not ordinarily liable for any of its debts. A
purchaser may acquire a single share or a hundred shares of stock in a
corporation and—if the stock is full-paid—go on about his business with the
full assurance that he cannot lose more in that enterprise than the amount of
money paid for his share. No matter what happens to the corporation he cannot
be involved beyond the loss of his investment.

The second great advantage of the corporation is the convenience and
flexibility of its arrangements. The smaller investor may be provided for
equally with the man putting in hundreds of thousands. Each has his
proportionate interest and his proportionate rights. Also, under the corporate
system almost any desired business conditions may be effectively provided for
and preserved. Its adaptability in this direction is remarkable. Enterprises of
the present day are carried on almost uniformly under the corporate system.

The one material objection urged against the corporate system, as a means of
conducting enterprises, is the absolute control which is exercised by the
majority stockholders. It must be admitted that this objection to the
corporation does exist and that it may be a serious one unless expressly
provided

against. On the other hand, the same objection exists to any form of business
organization. The majority must and always will rule. Their absolute power may,
however, be so modified in the corporation by provisions for minority
representation and by charter and by-law limitations on the power of the
majority, that its objectionable features are largely or wholly removed. The
corporation then becomes the safest, the most effective and the most generally
desirable form of business organization known to the industrial world.

Adequacy of Capital

The necessity for capital in the development of a new business will not be
questioned. A sharp difference of opinion is, however, likely to exist as to
the amount required. Especially with young or inexperienced men the almost
invariable tendency in calculating the necessary expenditures and the probable
receipts of a new enterprise is to seriously minimize the one and to greatly
overestimate the other.

It is a simple matter to take pencil and pad, sit down, figure out the
necessary expenses of the new undertaking, add a percentage for incidentals
and, to be fair, a further allowance for overhead, and deem the matter settled.
The experienced business man, however, knows that at every stage and step of
development there are delays, changes of original plans, unexpected
requirements, failures of expected revenue, and along with it all, endless
incidental but unavoidable expenditures that bring the sum total up far above
anything that would at first sight seem possible. Because of this inevitable
and unconquerable tendency of expenses to swell far beyond the expected limits
the inexperienced man should either consult some friendly expert familiar with
the particular line in which he proposes to embark, or otherwise allow a
liberal percentage for incidentals and operating margin, and beyond this a
considerable amount for the unexpected.

This is the more important because of the very great difficulty of raising
further money for enterprises when the original funds are exhausted before the
enterprise reaches the condition of self-support.

When an enterprise is first presented, if the proposition and conditions are
favorable, it is nearly always possible to raise the amount thought necessary
for its purposes, and it is a measure of wise precaution to secure a treasury
reserve of cash at this time sufficient to carry the company through to
success. If this is not done or the funds provided prove to be insufficient and
are exhausted before the enterprise has reached the point of self-support, the
condition is peculiarly unfortunate. The failure to pull through is hard to
explain, the enterprise is discredited, and the whole thing is looked upon as a
"lame duck" if not a complete failure.

Under these conditions, to secure more money on any ordinary basis is almost
impossible, and if it is accomplished, the "carrying" individual or syndicate
usually demands, and perforce receives, payment out of all proportion to the
amount of the investment.

Such a situation should as stated be avoided by a sufficient provision at the
time the enterprise is launched to carry it safely through to the point to be
attained. If the amount required for this cannot be obtained at the time, the
enterprise should either be held back until the required sum can be secured, or
the development plans be so modified that the amount in hand will suffice. To
do otherwise is to invite disaster.

On the other hand, the position of the enterprise which has reached a point of
self-support and moderate returns, but which must raise more capital before
further progress can be made, while not exactly favorable, is still far
superior to that of the stranded enterprise. It is beyond the dead line. It has
life and vitality. It is neither a suppliant nor a forlorn hope. The risks of
investment in it are minimized and there is a certain degree of attractiveness
about it that makes the raising of additional capital very much easier. The
situation is not an uncommon one and the ordinary methods of securing capital
may, as a rule, be used with success.

Exercises

The financing of an enterprise involves numerous problems, into the details of
which it is interesting for a prospective manager and proprietor to penetrate.
The study of certain of the books listed in Chapter XXIX will supplement
excellently the necessarily brief discussion contained in this work and enable
the young business man to handle the financial problems of his business with a
surer hand.

The problems themselves center in such questions as:

Amount of Capital Needed

How much capital is needed to start the business?
How much is needed for working capital?

Borrowing

What sources of credit have I?

How much capital can be secured from these sources?
By what means can my borrowing capacity be increased?

Partnership

What advantages in partnership? What disadvantages?
Could the capital required be secured more effectively by
taking in partners?

Incorporation

What advantages in the corporate form of organization?

What disadvantages?
To whom could I sell stock in this enterprise?

Building Up the Business

Should I build up the business myself clearly—learning as
I go?

Had I better hire others to manage it for me?
Can I afford to give full time to it?
Is it better to consider it a side-line?

CHAPTER XXIII

THE EXECUTIVE'S LEGAL PROBLEMS*

Law is, after all, only the formulated rules of human conduct, a code of
procedure and interpretation which is the outgrowth of the daily affairs of
men.

—Alfred Bicknell.

Help versus Hindrance

The financing of a business discussed in the preceding chapters concerns
vitally the executive's future—whether his enterprise is to wither into
nothingness or develop into the flourishing concern upon which his ambitions
are set. The latter result, a competent business man so much desires that he
spares no effort—disdains no assistance which will aid him to reach it, and
gives full heed to every possibility of danger which might defeat his end. In
both of these directions—aids and safeguards—a knowledge of business law will
help him.

The law sets up certain standards for the guidance of conduct, as the executive
discovers, adversely or beneficially, again and again. Too often,
unfortunately, business men conceive the law to be something of an arbitrary
nuisance, a source of friction and a hindrance to them in carrying out their
dealings. It is true that there are placed upon the statutes numerous laws
which affect business unfortunately, and that with respect to many details and
methods of court procedure the law's workings are costly and cumbrous. These
deservedly are criticised by men schooled in modern methods of efficiency.

Nevertheless, business men must recognize in fairness that part of their
objections, possibly a very large part, toward certain statutes are in reality
not directed justifiably at the law

•Legal portion prepared by Messrs. Conyngton and Shidle.

itself and those who enforce it, but at those responsible originally for its
passage. Moreover, the irritations caused them by what they term the law's
arbitrariness must not be permitted to obscure the very great benefits secured
from our legal system.

The Law of the Land

Business flourishes only where law prevails. No great business development is
possible until a country has become civilized enough to have settled laws and
orderly legal procedure. In countries like Mexico and the Balkan States no
great business establishments are to be found and the great resources of these
countries are not developed, or they are operated by foreign capitalists who
rely for protection on the strong arm of their own land. The rule of each man
for himself without regard to the just claims of others leads inevitably to
savagery and stagnation.

As business is thus dependent on the existence of law and order, it follows
that the greatest business development is found in those countries where there
are established laws and settled government, which can be counted upon to
operate in the same general way at all times.

In our own country we are fortunate in having one of the most advanced systems
of law to be found in the civilized world. Its beneficent operation has always
been ours and like the air we breathe or the water we drink we consider it a
part of the order of nature, which it is not. All we enjoy of personal freedom
and safety of life and security of property has been won by conflict, courage,
and sacrifice on the part of our fathers. The so-called natural rights to life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness, are not found in a state of nature. They
are the fruits of a long, painful struggle by our forefathers who loved liberty
and self-expression. When these rights were won they were embodied in our
system of

laws and government. We should prize all these more if we remembered how much
they cost and how bare and hard our life would be if they were swept away and
each man had to depend on his own arm and skill to protect himself, his family,
and his scanty belongings from forces of fraud and aggression.

Relation of Law to Business

A business man should realize that while our system of law regulates business
in manifold directions, his industrial existence depends upon the fact that we
live in a country of orderly government, and that the laws for the protection
of property and the enforcement of contracts rarely fail to give the security
to him that they should.

Most business operations are made possible only by the fact that we live under
settled government according to which the rights of each party to a business
transaction are defined and can be enforced. The object of all law is to define
rights and to provide a remedy when those rights are infringed. In all of the
law, the primary purpose is to do justice, to protect the man who is trying to
do business fairly, and to check and restrain those who violate the law and who
refuse to observe their contracts and obligations. In practice it is too often
cumbersome and costly, but its theory is sound and its aims are the highest.
Because it exists and can be invoked when necessary we are able to do business
and collect what is owing to us and are protected from theft, injustice, and
extortion. Our business goes on day after day, and robbery, fraud, and
blackmail are exceptional. Most business men do business squarely and neither
do nor suffer wrong and rarely have anything to do with the courts. It is to be
remembered that for one case where a man has to enforce his rights through the
somewhat tedious and costly procedure of our courts, there are nine hundred and
ninetynine cases where those same rights are enforced merely by the fact that
the law exists, so that if the contract were broken, or the right denied, the
injured party could have recourse to the law.

The Law of Contracts

Certain parts of the law of the land so particularly affect business and
business operations that every man who engages in business must have clear
ideas on these subjects.

For example, the law of contracts enters into every day's work. In fact, the
major part of many businesses consists of making and fulfilling contracts.
Notwithstanding this, it is strange how many otherwise intelligent business men
are not clear on the elementary principles of contracts. To make a contract
binding, certain things are requisite. Some contracts must always be in
writing. Some other contracts will be implied without the parties saying
anything about coming to an understanding or making an agreement.

An interesting case which came up a short time ago involving a prominent New
York real estate dealer, illustrates well how a knowledge of business law may
save the costs of expensive and needless litigation.

The New York dealer offered by letter a city lot to a client in Hot Springs,
Arkansas, on January 30th. On February 7th, the client wrote accepting the
offer on the terms proposed. On the same day, owing to changed real estate
conditions, the dealer wrote to Hot Springs withdrawing his offer. The client's
acceptance reached New York on February 9th. The Hot Springs man claimed that
the dealer must fulfill his original offer because the acceptance had been sent
before the letter of withdrawal was received.

His claim was upheld by the court on the ground that "an offer made by letter
which is to be answered in that way cannot be withdrawn unless the withdrawal
reaches the party to whom it is addressed before he has accepted." A
familiarity with the fundamentals of business law would have saved this real
estate man both money and time.

Another point on which business men are apt to be careless is the necessity of
being able to prove contracts so that in event of any subsequent disagreement
it is possible to show exactly what the real agreement was. To enforce a right
in court, evidence is necessary. Many, many times good cases are lost because
the injured party cannot prove what he knows is true. A business man should
know exactly what evidence is required for any contract he makes.

Again, some contracts are illegal and cannot be enforced. In most cases this
does not necessarily mean that those making the contract are liable to any
penalty or that there is anything criminal in the contracts, but for reasons of
public policy the courts will not enforce them, but will leave the party to
such an agreement without any remedy.

Again, some contracts can be enforced according to their terms and the parties
who make them must perform them specifically. In other cases, when a party
refuses to perform his part, the only remedy is to sue for money damages for
the breach of contract.

The contract of sale is such a common one that at the present time business men
are trying to secure the adoption of a uniform law concerning it in every state
of the Union. Such a law has already been adopted in about fifteen states. In
those states where it has not been adopted the same general principles prevail.
It is obvious that the business man should know by heart the essential features
of the law governing contracts of sale.

The Law of Agency

Another matter that continually comes up in business is the law of aerencv.
Most men act at times as agents for others. At other times they themselves will
deal through agents who represent them and again at other times they will deal
with agents representing other parties. This is such a common relationship that
every business man should know just what are the rights and powers, and duties,
and responsibilities of agency.

Business Organization

Again, there is the matter of business organization. Partnerships are not used
as much as they were formerly, but at some time or other almost every person is
involved in some sort of partnership relation with other people and his
liability may be very serious. He should know enough to avoid such liabilities
unless he really intends to "shoulder them."

At this time most of the important business of the world is done under the
corporate form and this makes a knowledge of corporate procedure and corporate
management and the way in which corporations do business an essential feature
of a business man's education.

In all these matters there is variation between the decisions of the courts in
the different states and between the statute laws of the different states, and
the finer distinctions are not mastered even by skilful lawyers. The difference
between the lawyer and the business man is often only this, that the lawyer
knows how to look up the law he wants to know.

But it is entirely possible for an intelligent business man to secure a working
knowledge of the broad principles on which all these laws, statutes, and
decisions are founded and the business man who has this general knowledge of
legal principles and the desire to do the fair and right thing in all his
business relations will rarely get into trouble with the law.

The Law Relating to Your Own Line of Business

In addition to a general knowledge of law as it affects business contracts and
business operations, the practical business man should have a special knowledge
of law as it affects his own particular business. A real estate man should be
better versed in the law of real estate than the average lawyer; an insurance
man should likewise know more of the law of insurance than the average lawyer;
a manufacturer should know more about factory legislation and the laws
regulating employment than does the ordinary attorney.

Every man should know in a general way the pr1nciple of law and judicial
procedure and in addition he should know thoroughly the law that relates to his
own special business.

Wherein the Law is Lacking—Procedure Slow

In shaping one's business conduct it is necessary to know wherein our laws are
deficient. Perhaps the greatest defect in our system of law is that the attempt
to enforce rights by legal procedure or suit is so slow and so costly. It is
true that in most cases business difficulties can be settled by judicious
negotiation without suit, but there are times when almost every business man is
forced to go to law to vindicate his rights. In such case the probabilities are
that he will waste a great deal of time, spend a good deal of money, and
possibly at the end fail to get the justice which he seeks. The jury system has
its merits, but it is hard to get twelve men to agree on anything, and the
compromise of opinions that usually results is not always satisfactory.

Complexity

Another defect of our law is that it is too complex and much of it is hard to
understand. We have a multitude of state legislatures grinding out new laws and
when a business house is doing business all over the United States it is very

difficult to avoid legal entanglements in some of the states. In the time of
the Revolution, there was so little interstate commerce that it was not
anticipated how great the inconvenience would be of having a multitude of
diverse state laws. This defect is being remedied to some considerable extent
at the present time by the passage of uniform state laws on various business
subjects. The Uniform Negotiable Instruments Law has been adopted by all but a
few states. Uniform sales acts have also been adopted in a number of the
states. Other systems of uniform law are almost sure to be adopted before many
years. Apart from this, there is a general tendency to make state laws more
uniform on those subjects in which business is principally interested.

Variety of Sources

Another difficulty with our system of law is the variety of sources from which
it comes. An ordinary citizen is subject to the following laws:

The Constitution of the United States

The laws of Congress authorized by the Constitution

The separate state constitutions

The acts of the separate state legislatures

The ordinances of the city council or board of aldermen

In addition to these, there are various commissions, boards, and bureaus that
have power to make regulations affecting traffic, schools, public health,
building, employment, and many other things that from time to time have been
added and will be added as our population increases and business develops.

How to Secure a Knowledge of Law

It is possible to take courses of study that will give the business man the
knowledge of law he needs. Nearly all business schools have some course in
commercial law. In many cases, however, such a course is very limited and goes
only to a few elementary principles. In some of the better evening schools and
in the extension courses of the universities, it is possible to go further into
this subject.

The other method of acquiring an adequate knowledge of business law is to read
books. There are good general texts published on the laws of business. The
reader should discriminate between those larger books which are intended to be
used only as works of reference, that is, to be at hand for ready consultation
in case of any particular trouble and those other books which are intended to
give a broad, general knowledge of the principles of law. This difference
between books is a marked one and it should be remembered that even the best
educated lawyers cannot possibly carry in their heads a knowledge of the
manifold details of our modern law. Somebody has said that the principal art of
the lawyer is in knowing where to find things. The same may be true of the
business man. The man who wishes to have an adequate knowledge of law should
read a good text-book on the general principles of law. Then if he has any
particular specialty, such as insurance or real estate, he should take up some
textbook on that particular subject. It might be well for almost any modern
business man to read up specially on the law of corporations. Next, not for
reading purposes, but merely for purposes of consultation and reference, he
should have certain law books at hand. The extent to which this should be
carried depends upon how large his establishment is and how far it is worth
while to depend on his individual efforts before consulting a lawyer. The
larger encyclopedias of law will be found confusing because of the extent to
which they go into detail.

How to Avoid Litigation

As has been said, litigation is to be avoided. It is generally a last resort,
and only to be utilized when all means of settling the difficulty otherwise
have been exhausted. To avoid litigation a person should have a good general
knowledge of the law. Then he should be very careful to reduce all contracts to
writing and to have so far as is possible accurate written records of
everything that is done in connection with his business. It should not be
necessary to say that every man should deal fairly with his employees and with
his customers and with those from whom he purchases. When it is recognized that
a man or a firm, or a corporation, tries to deal fairly with all, it will be
found that it is generally easy to adjust or compromise any difficulty.
Further, if in the course of business it is found that some people are hard to
deal with, it will be worth making some sacrifice to keep away from them
altogether. A man who has earned the reputation of being "difficult" to deal
with is a man whom it is well to avoid.

The Lawyer and the Business Man

It would be highly desirable to go through life and have nothing to do with
lawyers or doctors or dentists, but it does not seem possible as things are.
Every business man should have a lawyer in whom he has confidence. Business men
sometimes employ a lawyer on the principle of fighting the devil with fire, or
setting a thief to catch a thief. In the long run it will be more satisfactory
and profitable to employ a fair-minded, honorable lawyer with whom your
relations can be both businesslike and friendly. He will look to your interests
and keep you out of litigation wherever it is possible. There is some
difficulty in finding the right lawyer, but it is worth while to go to some
trouble and have a counselor who will be both friend and advisor. Many lawyers
are excellent business men as well as excellent lawyers and can give valuable
advice in many matters that are not strictly legal.

Lawyer's Fees

As a knowledge of physiology does not enable the layman to prescribe remedies
for himself in times of sickness, but does teach him the necessity of calling
in a physician in certain contingencies, so will some knowledge of business law
serve to indicate when the services of a competent lawyer are needed. By
realizing before it is too late the function of a lawyer, many times the amount
of his fee may be saved. "It should always be remembered that a lawyer should
be employed not to conduct litigation but to avoid litigation. Litigation,
generally speaking, is like war, a destructive and unsatisfactory expedient."

"In employing an attorney it is best to be entirely frank with him. The
contract which the client is about to make is for legal service for which he
expects to pay. It is not possible to have an established market price for
legal services as is the case with more material commodities. Some lawyers
presume on this fact and charge extortionate fees. In the same city the fees of
different practitioners may be as far apart as $100 and $1,000 for the same
services. There may be as much difference in the value of the services secured
but this is not always the case. When engaging an attorney, either as permanent
counsel or for a single matter of business, it will save trouble and
misunderstanding to ask him frankly what he means to charge.

"Some services, such as incorporating a company, drafting a will, and the like,
can be estimated positivejy and a definite price can be given. In other
matters, as for the conduct of a case, it is not possible to state definitely
in advance what the cost will be. Almost every lawyer has a certain time rate,
however, and grades his prices on the amount of time that is required. Usually,
time spent in consultation or in the lawyer's office will have one price, and
time spent in the trial or the argument of the case will be rated at a much
higher price. If a lawyer states what he charges for his time in preparing a
case and what he will charge when on trial, it is possible to get some rough
idea of what the proposed litigation is likely to cost.

"A good plan is to arrange for a yearly consultation fee, which gives the
privilege of consulting on any matters which come up. Then it should be
understood that for actual legal work, negotiating, drawing contracts, or
conducting litigation, regular prices are to be charged.

"It is to be borne in mind that in this discussion of lawyers' compensation,
the prices paid specialists or famous trial lawyers, or men who work for
wealthy clients and wealthy corporations, are not considered. Usually these
charge all that the traffic will bear and sometimes more. Their services are
luxuries which cannot be afforded by the average business man."*

The Rules of Finance

This discussion of business law concludes our survey of the executive's
problems of personal finance. The preceding chapters have outlined the
essential features of an enterprise; have shown how, having laid his
foundations solidly in thrift, the executive can secure funds ample for the
financing of his enterprise; and have presented suggestions on how properly to
safeguard one's property and business transactions through a knowledge of the
law.

The management of one's affairs in such a manner that the value of his
possessions constantly increases, is an avenue to business power in this age of
capital whose importance few will question. The discussion of personal finance
of the preceding chapters is well ended by the following matter-of-fact rules
of financing as presented by William H. Lough, in his "Business Finance."

•Taken by permission from "Business Law," by Conyngton.

CHAPTER XXIV

TEAM-WORK

// / had not been able to get along with people I would not have been able to
get on in this world.—Lord Kitchener.

Business Today Beyond the One-Man Stage

The business man who renders himself effective in all the phases of personal
management hitherto discussed thereby completes successive stages in a
conquering offensive. Even so, full victory may yet be denied him. His final
test, which must be passed if he is to achieve notable rank in business, can be
well set before us through an incident drawn from the early career of the late
Mr. Frank Woolworth, the chain store magnate.

It was in 1886, that Mr. Woolworth, having demonstrated in a small way up-state
the feasibility of the five-and-ten-cent chain stores, opened a tiny office in
New York at 104 Chambers Street, at $25 a month rent. Here he worked almost day
and night, personally answering his correspondence, making leases for the
various promising locations he had investigated, buying for all his stores, and
doing all his own bookkeeping. But these overstrenuous efforts soon told upon
his health. Although he was a large-framed man of above-average height, his
weight at the time he was running the New York office single-handed fell off to
135 pounds, and an attack of typhoid fever with which he was soon stricken
rendered him for eight weeks unable to attend to business at all.

"This experience taught me a lesson," said Mr. Woolworth. "Up till then I
thought I must attend to everything myself. But now I indulged in the luxury of
a bookkeeper and I also, at great effort, broke myself of the conceit that I
could buy goods, display goods, run stores and do everythingelse more
efficiently than any man associated with me. That really marked the beginning
of my success and enabled me to expand in a large way. From then on I confined
my attention to important matters, to looking ahead, thinking up new plans,
giving instructions to other people, placing responsibilities on them, and
contenting myself with general supervision of the conduct of the business. So
many thousands of merchants never get over the conceit that they must do
everything themselves, with the result that they struggle along in one little
store.

"A business is like a snowball. One man can easily push it along for a while,
but the snowball becomes so large if pushed ahead that help must be obtained to
roll it—and if you don't keep rolling it, it will soon melt."

Reaching the Consumer

The field in which Mr. Wool worth operated was merchandising; it is pertinent
to observe to what extent his experience was typical. Let us examine the
various channels of distribution by means of which commodities are transferred
from producer to consumer, our aim being to note the present tendencies in
merchandising with respect to the one-man business. (See Figure 33.)

The usual channel of distribution is designated by (1) in the diagram. The
manufacturer turns over his products to a limited number of selling agencies,
who in turn pass them along to a larger number of jobbers, who dispose of the
merchandise in turn to a still larger number of retailers, who supply the
ultimate consumers.

The feature here is the growth of the large-scale department store. The
old-fashioned general store of the country crossroads supplied nearly every
line of merchandise which the limited wants of its community demanded. The
increased

[ocr errors][merged small][ocr errors][merged small][merged small][merged
small][merged small][merged small][merged small][merged small][merged small]
[merged small][merged small][merged small][merged small][merged small]

demands of large town and city consumers led to two consequences: the
development of the specialty store, retailers devoting themselves to shoes,
hats, silks, books, and the like; and the rise into prominence of the
department store, a mammoth institution in which scores of specialty stores are
combined under one roof. It is not unusual for 200,000 customers to enter one
of these stores during a single day, nor for its purchases of a particular
commodity to total $100,000. Its delivery wagons and cars, drawn up one behind
the other, would surround an entire city square and its employees may exceed
6,000.

The relative status of these stores is shown in a report on the volume of
business of leading stores in the one hundred largest American cities, prepared
by the Curtis Commercial Research Division. This study comprised a total of
$943,451,000 worth of merchandise, which was found distributed as follows:

100 largest stores, one in each city $260,740,000 or 28%

[table]

The tendency here shown is equally noticeable in the other channels of
distribution. The chain stores (No. 3 in the foregoing diagram) represented by
retail corporations such as the United Cigar Company, the F. W. Woolworth
Company, and the Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company; and manufacturers'
chains (No. 4) represented by organizations such as the W. L. Douglas Shoe
Company, the Regal Shoe Company, and the Knox Hat Company have come to be a
prominent factor in merchandising, as the following statistics gathered in 1914
by Printers' Ink will demonstrate:

Number of Their Number

Field Chains of Stores

Groceries 500 8,000

Tobacco 250 2,500

News-stands 200 2,500

5c and 1oc 180 2,000

Oil, gasoline, etc 5 2,000

Drugs 200 1,400

Restaurants 100 1,400

Pianos and musical instruments 125 1,000

Sewing machines 2 1,000

Boots and shoes 50 700

Automobile accessories 50 650

Clothing 50 600

All others 1,076 6,799

Total 2,788 30,549

While space does not permit the discussion of the other channels of
distribution designated on the foregoing diagram, the present tendencies in
merchandising are indicated pretty closely in this tabulation of what has taken
place during eleven years in Greater New York's retail grocery trade:

1903 1914 Per Cent Increase

All stores 8,750 13,513 54

Chain stores 215 985 360

Large-Scale Production

The tendency toward centralization of ownership and management has been even
more completely developed in production. An establishment whose annual product
totals $1,000,000 or over certainly has gone far beyond the oneman stage;
according to the returns of the Thirteenth Census the number of such
establishments, 1,900 in 1904, had increased to 3,060 in 1909. While these
establishments even in the latter year were relatively insignificant in number,
comprising only 1.1 per cent of the whole, their product in 1904 represented 38
per cent of the total product manufactured and in 1909 an increase to 43.8 per
cent.

At the time the matter of price fixing was before Congress in September, 1917,
it was learned that 60 per cent of the United States annual production of
40,000,000 tons of pigiron was produced by twelve companies; that 72 per cent
of the 43,000,000 tons of steel ingots produced annually were made by thirteen
companies, although 200 companies were operating in this field; that 62 per
cent of the steel bars were produced by eight companies; 89 per cent of the
shapes by five companies; and 66 per cent of the plates by seven companies.

Advantages of the Big Business

This movement toward consolidation is similarly to be observed bringing about
great changes in transportation, publishing, mining, contracting, real estate,
and banking. In fact, while certain lines of business are so well adapted to a
oneman stage that they may be expected to persist, the tendency in general is
toward the large-scale enterprise.

The reason for this general tendency is clear. The largescale enterprise,
compared point by point with the small, possesses distinct advantages with
respect to the four operations of business, viz., production, sales, accounts,
and finance. The more important of these advantages can thus be summarized:

1. Strategic Location of its Units. The chain store has developed this
advantage to a high degree of perfection; but other concerns in the location of
their subsidiary plants, branches, offices, or agencies can also place them
strategically. This permits the adjustment of each unit to its particular field
and it often secures a saving in cross freights.

2. Increased Use of Machinery. The volume of operations undertaken by the
large-scale enterprise is so large that when classified certain of these
operations will be reduced to routine and hence subject to machine operation.
Sealing and stamping machines, automatic gear cutting machines, and automatic
box filling devices illustrate very nicely this advantage.

3. Utilization of By-Products. The stockyards, when they have centralized on an
enormous scale the slaughtering of livestock, are able to develop various
subsidiary uses for products which the individual butcher could only waste. The
coke industry, the salvage carried on by department stores, or, closely akin,
the stoppage of small wastes indicates how this advantage can be utilized in
practically any business.

4. Wider Latitude in Choosing the Marketing Plan. The large-scale enterprise
has a certain freedom of choice, commonly denied the small enterprise, in
choosing which of the various channels of distribution it shall employ. Were
national advertising decided upon, for instance, the slogan of "keeping
everlastingly at it brings success" is one which a large enterprise runs less
risk of violating.

5. Regularization of Production and of Prices. The cycles of business, which
have been described in a preceding chapter, can be studied and dealt with more
effectively, as a rule, by the large-scale enterprise. Its policy thus tends to
regularize production and prices.

6. A Superior Management. The large-scale enterprise usually has a wide variety
of talent in its management, its research staff can perfect new devices, and
its executives are more or less continuously exchanging ideas and comparative
data. Such superior management purchases more effectively, supervises credit
risks more accurately, and in general easily secures for its company the
various other advantages specified.

The Organization Point of View

While no enterprise can expect to utilize all these advantages to the fullest,
the possibility of deriving substantial profits from certain of them accounts
in the main for the growth of large-scale business. The general tendency toward
business establishments of large size was greatly accelerated by war demands.
Winning the war meant that we had to pool the resources of the entire nation,
and it is now evident that maintaining a post-war supremacy is to be a matter
of economic centralization on a scale vaster than heretofore attempted.

The man who surveys conditions with a view to discovering certain principles
which will guide him toward success today and throughout the stirring period
into which business is swinging, must think of his own part in terms of
organization. (See Figure 34.) Otherwise, however good his intentions and
strenuous his efforts, as an individualist, a man who thinks only of self when
affairs of moment are under way, will putter and "mess" things far more than he
helps. Since business in every line of importance has passed, never to return,
the one-man stage, this is necessarily so; and he who would play a notable part
hereafter must accept fully the organizer's point of view and work with other
men.

The Business of Being an Executive

In saying the manager should accept the organization point of view and work
with other men, we have a general principle of great value. Nevertheless it
possibly appears indefinite and hence, in order to be more fully useful ought
to be re-stated in somewhat different terms. What does it really mean? how does
it operate in practice? Here we have questions for whose full answer volumes
would be required, but whose "high spots" at least we shall venture to set
forth in summarized form even at the risk of over-simplification. In putting
into practical operation the organization point of view, the executive, it
appears, proceeds according to the summary on pages 426 and 427.

[ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr
errors][ocr errors][ocr errors][table][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr
errors][merged small][table][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors]
[ocr errors]
[blocks in formation]
[blocks in formation]

Rules of the Business Game

The above items, while they do not express by any means all the things an
executive does and does not do, set forth with fair adequacy the essentials of
the manager's job.

In order that these four processes of organization, planning, the supplying of
incentives, and supervision, may function properly, however, so that there may
be additional security that managers and men do not work at cross purposes,
there is need of those carefully worked out rules of the business game which,
in contrast to rule-of-thumb, we may term scientific management.

The story of the very early steps in scientific management as worked out in the
yards of the Bethlehem Steel Company, where from 400 to 600 shovelers were
under the charge of Frederick W. Taylor, has become a classic. The belief
current among managers at the time was that to shovel materials a man must
simply shovel, and this these men were doing— sixteen tons daily. Taylor
believed that without longer hour? or more intense effort on the part of the
men, output could be materially increased; and accordingly he put into
operation his now well-known four principles of scientific management.

Principles of Scientific Management

1. The Development of a Science for Each Element of a Man's Work, Which
Replaces the Old Rule-of'-Thumb Method. The proper size of shovel as the result
of a considerable number of experiments was found to be that which held
twentyone pounds; consequently eight or ten different kinds of shovels were
provided, each designed to hold twenty-one pounds, the larger shovel for
materials of light weight and the smaller for the heavy. The method of
inserting the shovel into the material, the speed at which the shoveling should
be done, the proportion of time a man should be under load and at rest, were
among the other elements studied.

2. The Scientific Selection of Workmen*. Not all the laborers were found
properly equipped to be shovelers, hence further study was made in order to
determine the type best adapted for the work at hand. Those not meeting the
requirements were transferred elsewhere, leaving as shovelers in the end a gang
of laborers who were picked men.

3. The Bringing Together of the Selected Workmen and the Science. The men were
trained to shovel by teachers provided for that purpose, and as a further
incentive a bonus system of wages was introduced.

4. The Almost Equal Division of Work Between the Management and the Men. 
Whereas under rule-of-thumb a man set about his work with little co-operation
from the management, under the plan here put into operation an office force was
installed which olanned the work at least a day in advance.

The result of this elaborate system—tool room, office, telephones, additional
tools, time-study men, clerks, foremen, and labor superintendent—was that
output increased from sixteen tons to fifty-nine, wages from $1.15 to $1.88,
and ton cost to the company, all expenses included, was reduced from 7 1/5
cents to 3 1/3 cents. These results were the fruits of standardization.

Standardization produces a rule book for the business game, and the executive
ought not to cease until systematic rules are in force throughout the entire
organization. He is interested alike in:

Standards for the factory.
Quotas for the sales department.

Standards for the office and the accounting depart-
ments.
Budgets for the financial department.

When these have been developed and put into operation, the organization will
run smoothly because subject to rule.

Charting the Manager's Responsibilities

While a discussion of these various standards would take us too far afield, we
are nevertheless concerned that the manager guide himself correctly through
these rules of the business game. In his attempt to do so the executive will
seek most of all to know clearly what he is responsible for; what is his job.

"The manager should be a hair-spring—not a mainspring," is the way W. A. Field,
General Superintendent of the South Works, Illinois Steel Company, conceives
his position. "He should not have to drive his organization, but merely hold it
back, regulate it, keep it in adjustment."

"Doing what no one else can do," is the way J. B. Kendall, head of a real
estate concern, puts it. He blocks out the big plan, finances it, and then
turns it over to his lieutenants to be realized.

"My job," says J. R. Richardson, General Manager of the Hotpoint Electric
Heating Company, "is to keep the organization steamed up—and to hire the right
men, which is coming to be more and more important."

Very similar is the conception of his position held by President Patterson of
the National Cash Register Company. Years since, an executive overworked to the
point of collapse, he was forced to give up active duties for the time being
and sought recuperation by a trip to Europe. It was feared he would never be
able to take up the reins of management again. While on this trip, however, Mr.
Patterson in pondering over his difficulties, hit upon a simple diagram which
he believed expressed them fully. (See Figure 35a).

[graphic]

Figure 35 (a) and (b). The Executive's Position

The management of his factory had proved to be a crushing burden because he
himself, as A in the first figure, was supporting the rest of the organization.
The correct position, he decided, could be secured only by turning the pyramid
about, as in the second figure. (See Figure 35b.) The organization, because of
his wrong location with reference to its other members, had crushed him.
President Patterson returned to Dayton conceiving his position in a new light,
and the later career both of the National Cash Register Company and himself
personally confirms in a most convincing way the correctness of his analysis.

[merged small][merged small][merged small][graphic][merged small][merged small]
[merged small]

Figure 36. "My Duties" Analyzed

The analysis of his position is essential if the executive is to co-operate
effectively. The outline of such an analysis is here shown, the presidency of a
moderate-sized corporation being the position assumed.

Outlines of Specific Duties

These general conceptions should next be followed by analyses which outline the
duties of the position somewhat Specifically. Figure 36 illustrates an analysis
such as the president of a small corporation might make, although with the
responsibilities of a given position clearly before him and his pencil in hand,
an executive might well go into more specific detail than is here indicated.

Since an organization comes sooner or later to reflect its manager, this
charting of his responsibilities represents an essential element in team-work.

Exerc1ses

Careful Adjustment of Function

As a business expands questions regarding differentiation of function and
distribution of responsibility among its officials are bound to multiply. The
problems involved here have already been considered in part in the chapter on
the Private Secretary, but they present themselves now in much more complex
form. Here it is not a matter of personal relations between a single executive
and one or two immediate subordinates. It concerns the relations among many
officials whose work, all essential and in large measure independent,
interlaces in various points. It is most important that all should have clearly
in mind where one man's duty leaves off and another's begins. Within the
organization there is no place for a No Man's Land; neither can there be
overlapping of lines. That business progresses best in the rapidly shifting
conditions of today which is able not merely to mobilize its full power of men
and resources, but is both able and ready to readjust its "line-up" from time
to time on the basis of scientific analysis.

A Test of Executive Capacity

The readjustment and perfecting of the business "line-up" can proceed more
expeditiously if the executive capacity of the men involved receives a more
definite appraisal. For this purpose the following test has been devised. In
making the appraisal, after each question place in the column at the right the
proper letter as per the following rating scale;

[ocr errors][merged small][merged small][merged small]

Organization

1. Have I located the real opportunities afforded by my position? (Am I off

on side lines, looking for the surface errors of subordinates?)

2. In turning1 these opportunities into realities did I surround myself with

able men? (Do I surround myself with a lot of "cheap" second raters,
so that I can have a better chance to be the whole thing myself?)

3. Has each of these men his job and the authority to proceed? (Does con

fusion exist, with repeated calls coming in for instructions?)

4. Are my subordinates securing from me constructive directions? _ (Do they

find me a putterer over details, a laggard whose non-decisions holds
them up?)

Planning

5. Are difficulties foreseen and their effects provided for in advance? (Does

"First one thing and then another" continually trip me up?)

6. When new projects are decided upon, do I draw up careful outlines of

procedure? (Am I busy settling things piece meal as they come?)

7. Am I doing every day some real constructive thinking? (Am I too har

assed and worried to concentrate?)

8. Do I push the work? (Does the work push me?)

Incentives

9. Do I appreciate generously the results obtained by others? (Do I belittle

their efforts and push myself into the limelight?) 1o. Am I developing and
training men constantly? (Am I always threatening discharge and telling how
incompetent my co-workers are?

11. Can I keep faith with my organization, permitting each man his due free

dom ana reasonable leeway for errors? (Do I break the spirit of my
men by arbitrarily taking things out of their hands?)

12. Am I regarded as a friend and co-worker? (Have I dwarfed and an

tagonized men, and instead of being a dispenser of the fair deal—4>een
a dispenser of "bunk"?)

Supervision

13. Is my judgment based upon the sound data which vitally affects my busi

ness? (Such sound data lacking, am I left in the dark?)

14. Have these sound data Deen properly summarized and reduced to graphic

form for my use? (Does the slow wading through much irrelevant matter
to get what I want cause me more bother than help?)

15. Do I recognize excellent results when such are produced? (Am I a rule

of-thumb man without carefully worked out standards?)

16. Have I a close grip on the essentials of my position? (Am I more filled

with suspicions than facts?)

Test Chart 20. Sixteen Tests of Executive Capacity

CHAPTER XXV

CO-OPERATION

You will never have the right team-work unless each man is looking after all of
his own job—and all the others know that he is.—John N. Willys, President,
Willys-Overland Company.

The Placing of First Things First

The rules of the business game, in their more carefully wrought out state
represented by the principles of scientific management, require the addition of
a second element before the organization attains its desired smoothness of
operation. This element is co-operation.

It is true that in this wonderful machine age the emphasis within large-scale
establishments appears to be placed upon mechanical elements. As a rule much is
heard of high-speed steel, multiple-spindle drills, automatic lathes, electric
resistance welding, internal transportation systems, plant layouts, control
boards, and similar items which comprise the mechanics of industry, but not a
great deal is said concerning the equally important but more elusive elements
encountered when men in their efforts are bound together. Yet it is significant
to note that when a really big executive surveys a really big task—as did Mr.
Stettinius in the following typical instance— his emphasis is somewhat
differently placed.

In the year 1915, the firm of J. P. Morgan and Company was appointed commercial
agent for the British Government. Edward R. Stettinius was taken from his
position as president of the Diamond Match Company and appointed the company's
representative. The Morgan offices were overrun not with hundreds, but
thousands of people anxious to sell all kinds of commodities. There were
manufacturers, both responsible and irresponsible, of clothing, machinery,
hardware, chemicals, surgical instruments, automobiles, and what not; there
were merchants, commission agents, horse dealers, inventors, and war brokers by
the score. Everything was for the time being in a state of chaos.

The Best Index for Efficiency

"A large portion of the stuff the British wanted here during the first twelve
months of the war," says Mr. Stettinius, "had never been produced in the United
States before, outside of our own arsenals, except to a very limited extent.
Our initial problem was how to start up the wholesale manufacture of munitions.
Existing plants were totally inadequate; but how and where should we begin to
develop others? To what extent could concerns making other things transform
their machinery and equipment into plants for the output of munitions? Would
steel plants be the most suitable, or automobile factories, or locomotive
works, or car building works—or what?

"We were embarking on an uncharted sea. We had no compass or precedents to
guide us. It was an absolutely new industrial problem. It not only involved
many millions of dollars, but possibly the lives of thousands of men; serious
mistakes would occasion delays and dangers of far more moment than the heavy
money loss. Some plan, some principle, some policy, had to be adopted, and
adopted quickly.

"After careful study, we decided that in placing war contracts we would have to
be guided less by the nature of any concern's products than by the character of
the men at its head. We figured that the layout of any plant, the design of the
buildings or the kind of machinery in it, was of minor importance to the degree
of success that had been exhibited in running it. In other words, brick and
mortar, machines and tools, were not what we went by, but the brain that
administered these things. We proceeded on the theory, which we had no occasion
subsequently to abandon, that 97^4 per cent of the efficiency of the plants
lies in the men, and only 2^ per cent in the bricks, mortar, and machinery that
make up the plant. Given the right stamp of men, we believed they would get
there."

The Organization's First Essential

This conclusion reached by Mr. Stettinius was not merely a happy idea which
worked out well in connection with war orders but a fact of basic importance in
the management of any enterprise. The organization's chief essential is men.

"Men make an organization, not machinery or plants," says John D. Rockefeller.
"The right kind of business men will build up an organization capable of
producing a large volume of a good product at a low price—the three things
essential to success." The secret of the Standard Oil Company's tremendous
growth, Mr. Rockefeller thus explains: "We gathered together around one table
the ablest brains we could find in the country and we hid nothing from one
another. We each gave the business our undivided attention and loyalty."

In order to secure the effective co-operation mentioned by Mr. Rockefeller the
work of the company as a whole has to be subdivided, ranked in relative
importance, and delegated to the various employees. In so doing it is intended
not to suppress or lessen but to utilize more fully the total net power of each
individual. The careful working out of duties and responsibilities, indeed,
keeps one workman from standing in another's way or enables him to reinforce
another in need of help; in either case the effectiveness of the whole group is
increased.

Although an effective army is impossible without elaborate

arrangement and discipline the results nevertheless depend in large measure
upon the feelings and attitudes of the individual men toward each other. •

"The most important waste in business is not of materials but of time," points
out James Logan of the United States Envelope Company. "Now to make the most
effective reductions in the wastage of time, you must have co-operation from
your employees. In other words, the knack of working with men is vital."

It ain't the guns nor armament,

Nor funds that they can pay,
But the close co-operation that

Makes them win the day.
It ain't the individual nor the

Army as a whole,
But the everlastin' team-work

Of every bloomin' soul.

Surety of Performance

In order to render effective in a business organization the team-work specified
so stirringly by Kipling, what qualities are essential to the degree that they
may well be termed the cooperative virtues? The first of these concerns the
surety of performance.

The charting of a person's responsibilities, described in the preceding
chapter, can be regarded only as preliminary to their discharge. In fact, the
charting itself simply renders definite in the minds of both the person
concerned and his co-workers certain expectations, which, like expectations in
general, are of little value unless followed by actual performance. Can he be
depended upon to do this?

The accomplishment of the expected task doubtless could be rendered more
certain in various ways, such as the use of written messages, through
preliminary investigations, constant follow-up, searching inspections, and
severe penalties, plus numerous legal safeguards. But so cumbersome are such
methods and so intense the desire for speed and ease of operation that in most
cases the business world is convinced it is security purchased at an excessive
price and a more efficient substitute is sought.

What the Name "G. Washington" Meant

The problem faced here is well illustrated by the experience of customs
officers in the West Indies nearly two hundred years ago, who had to inspect
barrels of flour sent down from the colony of Virginia. As barrel after barrel
was rolled from the ships into the warehouses these inspectors laboriously
unfastened the casks to make their test. It was discovered after a time,
however, that barrels upon which appeared the name "G. Washington" invariably
contained the grade of flour specified, so with much relief and a considerable
expedition of business, they rolled such barrels along without examination; the
name sufficed.

The guarantee which proved most effective in this inspection of flour, viz.,
dependence upon the individual, the business world now utilizes constantly, and
it seems that the greater the need for speed and accuracy, the more complete is
its utilization. Business as a whole is done on the basis of five per cent cash
and ninety-five per cent credit. In Wall Street the really big operations are
almost wholly a matter of credit. Syndicate agreements involving at times many
millions are put through with no other formalities or safeguards than telephone
conversations and a few brief notes of confirmation exchanged among the
participants. On the floor of the stock exchange a member holds up certain
fingers, a fellow member nods his head, and this for the time being is
considered ample to bind the transaction although it may have involved
thousands of dollars and a cancellation of its conditions within an hour or two
possibly would have proved decidedly profitable for one of the parties. In the
same spirit. telephone orders to buy or sell securities are considered as
binding as a formal contract.

The interrelation between men within organizations and between organizations
links their responsibilities and fortunes so inextricably that as a business
virtue dependability possesses a decided asset value. Those who propose to deal
with a man necessarily are concerned about his dependableness and their
questions which always more or less conspiciously come to the forefront are:
Can he hold himself stable against selfishness, cupidity and greed, and make
good on his word? Has he the stamina and self-control needed to satisfy this
modern business requirement, best stated in the phrase ages-old,— "Whatsoever
ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them?"

He who can by his business conduct answer these questions affirmatively
possesses character, the premier co-operative virtue.

Winning the Good-Will of Others

Character will gain men's confidence but not necessarily their affection and
good-will. Yet the smile of William C. Durant, judged solely by its earning
power in the financier's career, doubtless would deserve a capitalization of
$50,000, and the winning ways of Charles M. Schwab have certainly had as much
to do with the success of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation as four or five extra
millions of capital, or a hundred laborers. Character, in fact, needs as its
supplement amiability, for while in former chapters the executive has been
referred to as at his desk, the analysis of his responsibilities shows that he
must also be a man among men.

While there is no royal road to the good-will of others unless it be the very
general dictum of deserving it, certain qualities do appear among those
executives whose hold upon their employees and associates is both affectionate
and enduring. Open-mindedness is one of these qualities. The closed mind, the
attitude of self-sufficiency and business stagnation, naturally repels
forward-looking men; but the executive whose mind is always open for advice and
suggestions supplies his co-workers with that vague yet subtle incentive which
at bottom constitutes for them self-realization, but which in its practical
outworking leads to their personal interest in the business and cordial
feelings toward the person who directs their common enterprise.

Enabling Men to Make Good

"Every business needs to develop the personality of its men," says George H.
Barbour, president of the Michigan Stone Company, "for that means
individualism, originality, growth, and progress."

In its practical aspects, the view so well stated here by Mr. Barbour involves
only very simple methods, though to a narrow-minded man they might seem most
difficult. There needs to be first of all hearty, constant change of ideas, a
pooling of intelligence and experiences.

"Once a week, every Saturday," says the captain of industry whose organization
at South Bethlehem is justly famed for its esprit dc corps, "I have the heads
of the various departments, upward of forty, take luncheon with me. Not a word
of business is permitted during the meal; but after everything is cleared away
we discuss matters in hand and exchange opinions. Every one of the gentlemen
present is at liberty to advise, to suggest, and to air his ideas. The value of
these meetings is very great. On Monday the gentlemen who have lunched with me
call their head men together and have similar meetings."

The man who wrote those words, Charles M. Schwab, is the man who was selected
finally to put through Uncle Sam's tremendous ship-building program, after a
number of smaller men successively had proved unequal to it. One of the duties
of every executive thus is to take his part as a useful member of the
"parliament" in which he sits, not to be merely a layfigure and not to make
himself a nuisance by over-aggressiveness.

The view that employees are assets, as a matter of sound business policy
deserving the attention which any asset of similar value should receive, will
eventually lead managers to regard themselves very properly as teachers. The
employees who intrust themselves to a firm, who turn over cheerfully to its
keeping their time, efforts, business reputation, and possibilities for future
growth, can be trained and encouraged in every feasible way to "make good" only
if this firm meets the moral responsibility it has incurred and measures up to
its full opportunity as a going concern.

Tact, a Quality Which Makes for Effectiveness

This willingness to look at things from the other's viewpoint constitutes the
essence of tact, another of the qualities which make for effectiveness. The
tactless man rasps our temper by his blundering and inconsiderate ways of
dealing, arouses our opposition and in the end wastes much of his surplus
energy in beating against the walls which offended persons have raised against
him. The methods of diplomacy are not such as these. The tactful man, in other
words the business diplomat, remembers a lady's birthday but forgets her age;
serves as a mirror in which his co-workers can, occasionally at least, catch
glimpses of their best selves; and melts away opposition by his humor and good
nature.

Unfortunately, owing to a confusion regarding their true nature, that which
passes for tact often represents deceit unadulterated and that which is called
diplomacy is often merely lying refined a bit. In reality such slyness and
trickery are base counterfeits, coined by those anxious to secure the re

wards of tact and diplomacy without cultivating the openmindedness, the ready
sympathy and consideration for others upon which these two qualities are in
fact based. Needless to say, co-operation represents a give-and-take in which
counterfeit coins do not ring true.

It is in part due to the exploitation at the hands of "uplifters,"
propagandists, and small politicians of these co-operative virtues that
business men, accustomed to think in matterof-fact terms and to express their
sympathies not in empty phrases but in tangible ways, are usually reticent to
express the very great consideration which they as a class feel toward their
fellows. Although their exteriors present a somewhat harsh appearance—which in
certain notable cases most accurately indicates the much shrivelled soul
underneath—the really big executives as a rule do possess the human touch, with
sentiments of kindliness, ready sympathy, and brotherly love.

Signs Which Indicate Co-Operation

The co-operative qualities which we have been considering are inner virtues,
imbedded deep in the personality. How is their presence detected by co-workers
and credit given for their possession? By external signs. These indicate a
person's record as co-operator, and his present associates and proposed
associates read most of them in a matter-of-fact way.

The question is often raised, Do clothes make the man? No; but they constitute
one of these external signs. "A man's clothes go a long way to help the people
he meets classify him," the well-known executive, A. H. Revell, very correctly
observes. "This classification may be unconscious. At first glance you may not
figure out that because a man wears a black frock coat, straw hat and a
checkered shirt, he does not know his business, but the chances are he has not
learned to adjust himself to his environment. And a man who can not adjust
himself is seldom a good business man.

"A man who enters the office with a sack coat, a silk hat on his head and a
cigar in his mouth, is not a normal man. He hasn't observed the fundamentals of
dress; the chances are that he has not associated with men who have. A man is
known by the company he keeps, and his clothes reflect the tastes of his
friends. And a man who has not associated in business with men of the caliber
of the man to whom he is offering a proposition cannot be assumed to be able to
place himself in the owner's position and see the situation from his viewpoint.

"A business man is inclined to listen to someone who appears to be prosperous.
It gives him confidence in his abilities. But prosperity is more often shown in
neatness than in style. A big diamond in a soiled shirt doesn't always prove
that it is an appreciation of the esthetic that makes a man forgetful of the
dandruff on his coat or the mud on his shoes.

"When one man out of ten estimates a man's character by his clothes, it is just
as well to put up a good appearance. Appearances are deceitful, but the man who
makes them count for him instead of against him is the man who can show the
bright side of a business proposition."

These observations made by Mr. Revell are filled with sound sense.

Suitable clothes, a well-groomed appearance, ease in conversation and in
correspondence, the ability to preside with dignity over conferences or public
meetings, and the possession of good manners are, it is true, merely externals,
yet these things are not arbitrary requirements fashioned to cramp the freedom
of dealing man with man but have developed into a social code because they do
facilitate co-operation. The man who conforms to them works among other men
with less friction.

The Iron Grip Surrendered?

It is not easy in these days when business has so completely passed the one-man
stage to over-emphasize the importance of co-operation. Its value steadily
rises. In the small business the proprietor is always face to face with his
helpers; in the large-scale establishment the chief owner and officials, so far
removed from the rank and file that the old-time personal touch is lost, are
called upon to reinstate this old-time personal touch by the utilization of
methods not dreamed of in the management of yesterday. With these improved
methods all the executives of the large organizations, from the chairman of the
board of directors down, can stress the personal element and proceed to
humanize the business. Activity, versatility, personality will be made to
flourish, in many respects, even more vigorously than in the small business
because it has larger human resources to draw upon and more varied
opportunities to present. Co-operation in such cases becomes very real.

Is this to mean a lack of discipline, a sort of Bolshevistic ideal at work in
American business? The men who forge ahead possess almost without exception a
certain persistent driving force. They are the sort who know what they want and
push toward it until results are attained. In consequence, for the sake of a
very fine but theoretical co-operation, shall the executive never oppose but,
reducing himself to a tactful nonentity, surrender to the whim of subordinates
his iron grip? It were co-operation secured at unreasonable price.

The executive is an executive only because organization and order follow in his
wake, and organization and order are necessary if effective results are to
accrue. It is a matter of expediency for all concerned. Under the stress of
competition subordinates prating over-much of their "rights" and demanding
soft, easy conditions, at the end of the month would find their
do-as-you-please attitude producing no pay checks. This fact is more generally
recognized than one might at first suppose and the experiences of the Great War
have trained a breed of men who will recognize it still more.

The Enterprise Greater Than Self

At the most critical day of the great German drive of March, 1918, the Germans
had made a hole between the English and French armies and were pouring through
the gap. If they were not stopped it meant the out-flanking of the entire front
and the risk of capture of thousands of men. But the emergency found a true
executive on the spot, General Carey, a British officer who had already
distinguished himself in the war. He promptly overstepped the regulations of
war. He collected, wherever he could find them, soldiers and civilians,
engineers and ditch diggers, men from the headquarters staff, and cooks, got
them into line, gave them guns and told them to stop the enemy. Carey's
extemporized army held up the German advance for two days. It was impossible,
of course, but they did it! When they got through Carey received an official
reprimand for taking non-combatants into the fight and the private, hearty
thanks of the government and of civilization.

The men who rallied at Carey's command and fought very nearly to the death
realized that a big enterprise was under way and that each had his essential
part to perform. In the same spirit one accounts for the devotion of that
spirited band which rallied round Pizarro in Peru, Cortez in Mexico, and
Washington at Valley Forge, or of those industrial loyalists who remained true
to Marshall Field at Chicago, Carnegie at Homestead, and Schwab at Bethlehem?
Strenuous effort is entirely compatible with intense loyalty, provided the
fruits of co-operative effort are shared fairly. When each associate recognizes
that his effort combined with that of many others secures more for himself than
were it exerted individually, all become enthusiastic co-workers in the common
enterprise. The executive himself, in fact, constitutes only one associate in
the enterprise to which he seeks the allegiance of others.

The solution of the problem involved in effective co-operation thus is simple
in its statement but far-reaching in its consequences: In order to co-operate
without at the same time surrendering his authority the executive need only
identify himself with some enterprise, larger than self and masterful in its
appeal, to which he surrenders his soul as it stirs his ambitions to the
depths.

Exercises

Playing the Game

The throwing of one's whole energies into an enterprise greater than self is
often termed by business men "playing the game." Needless to say, such playing
of the game stands in high favor among really big executives.

Walter Cottingham, of the Sherwin-Williams Paint Company, says: "How shall an
executive tap the spring of inspiration buried within him by which he may
enthuse himself and infect others? Let me emphasize that never, so long as he
is working for the love of gain alone, will he find the spring. Such an aim
will not bring the highest success—even in money. He must play the game for the
sake of the game—there must be the desire and joy of doing these things, the
spirit and willingness to put in his utmost strength because he enjoys his
work—because he wants to make a success of it—because he wants to be a prize
winner in the world's great race for achievement."

The same matter is emphasized by George W. Perkins, who declares: "The most
important thing of all is to look upon your work as play and throw yourself
into your work with the same zest and relish and determination to excel as when
you play baseball or checkers or football. By adopting this mental attitude
towards your work you can accomplish more and find greater pleasure and
satisfaction in the doing of it."

How Do You Grade?

In this playing of the business game, are you or are you not a good
co-operator? This is a question upon which we ought to have definite
information, yet regarding which definite knowledge is hard to

obtain. Test Chart 21 has been devised for purposes of a self-grading test.
Credit yourself in the column at the right, ten points, five points, two
points, or whatever other number your qualifications merit in each particular
case when measured by the requirements of standard practice. What is your final
grade?

Which credits are satisfactory? which unsatisfactory? What definite means are
you going to employ for raising these low credits?

[table][merged small]

CHAPTER XXVI

THE NEW IDEALS OF BUSINESS

The business man has created a new nobility for the common welfare.—R. Goodwyn
Rhett, President United States Chamber of Commerce.

Thinking in Broader Terms

The co-operative virtues have grown in importance as business has passed from
the one-man stage into that of largescale production. Their scope, however,
must needs have been widely extended in view of the breakdown under stress of
the Great War of our local self-sufficiency and national isolation. The trend
of the times and the terrific revelations of the war have shown that no man
lives to himself alone, and that society as a whole has a claim for service on
each individual. This claim exists in peace as well as in war. It has always
been recognized by a few, but of late years has come to be more generally
accepted, and now is fast becoming the rule of action for all business and
professional men. The men who are coming to the front today are the men who put
their duties as citizens, as patriots, above their personal business interests.

They think in broader terms. They are able to visualize men unseen, that great
group termed consumers and that vaster and vaguer group termed the public. This
is a new factor in the business of the future, and the far-reaching social
development which it indicates, the dignity and exaltation of the function of
business, can scarcely be magnified.

"Business Is Business"

In order to appreciate the progress the newer ideals of business already have
attained, it is worth while as a contrast to examine the old theories of
business and ascertain how they worked out in practice. It is to be borne in
mind that in former times anything attempted that was hard, mean, crooked or
dishonorable was supposed to be justified by saying, seriously, as if it meant
something, "Business is business."

In the preceding pages certain admirable business qualities possessed by John
D. Rockefeller have been frequently cited, for the reason that his careful
scrutiny of detail, his sound judgment and unusual executive ability to
organize and plan on a magnificent scale, well merit the study of men who would
seek advancement. With all these admirable endowments, how account for the
peculiar opprobrium that attaches to his name? To explain this we must examine
certain incidents of his career.

It had scarcely been decided in the sixties that Cleveland was to become the
great oil refining center, when young Rockefeller, then twenty-three years old,
quitted his produce commission house to go into the petroleum business. He was
of the early-and-late sort, who saw everything, forgot nothing, and never
talked. The twenty-five rivals already on the ground at Cleveland, according to
his theory, were merely inconveniences to be put out of the way once and
forever, and his brooding strategy after a time evolved a master weapon,
namely, secret rebates from the railroads.

His company, the South Improvement Company, soon had the roads serving the oil
region bound by secret contract, says Miss Tarbell in her History of the
Standard Oil Company, to these provisions:

"The open rate on crude to New York was put at $2.56. On this price the South
Improvement Company was allowed a rebate of $1.06 for its shipments; but it not
only got this rebate, it was given in cash a like amount on each barrel of
crude shipped by parties outside the combination.

"The open rate from Cleveland to New York was two dollars, and fifty cents of
this was turned over to the South Improvement Company, which at the same time
received a rebate enabling it to ship for $1.50. Again, an independent refiner
in Cleveland paid eighty cents a barrel for the shipping of his crude from the
Oil Region to his works, and the railroad sent forty cents of this money to the
South Improvement Company.

"An interesting provision in the contract was that full way bills of all
petroleum shipped over the roads should each day be sent to the South
Improvement Company. This, of course, gave them knowledge of just who was doing
business outside of their company—of how much business he was doing and with
whom he was doing it. Not only were they to have full knowledge of the business
of all shippers—they were to have access to all books of the railroads."

Beaten year by year by such tactics as these, the independent refiners by 1884
came to look upon John D. Rockefeller with superstitious awe, as a dread power
always ready to spring, cruel, fighting in the dark, and possessed of diabolic
cleverness. To them he was a man of mystery who carried concealed weapons. Was
it strange then that Mr. Rockefeller "persuaded" his competitors to sell him
their properties at his prices? "I have ways of making money," he pointed out
to one of them, Mr. Hewitt, "that you know nothing of."

The "Public be Damned" Policy

Here we have selfishness carried almost to the point of insult. While it is
true that Mr. Rockefeller as a business man possessed the highly admirable
qualities which have been cited, his greed combined with unscrupulous methods
of the kind just described caused these admirable qualities to be as a rule
ignored and rendered him perhaps the most widely distrusted of all American
leaders of industry. Yet the methods which Mr. Rockefeller employed for
attaining his end have characterized other builders of American enterprise.

"Law!" once roared Commodore Vanderbilt, "what do I care about the law? Hain't
I got the power?" Upon another occasion, observing that a Central director had
not voted for certain propositions then under consideration, he asked the
reason why. "Don't you know, Commodore," his friend replied, "that each and
every one of those transactions is absolutely forbidden by the statutes of the
State of New York?"

"My God! John," said Vanderbilt, "you don't suppose you can run a railroad in
accordance with the statutes of the State of New York, do you?"

Jay Gould's railroad operations embraced every phase of kite flying, watering,
stock jobbing, bankruptcy of companies and assessment of stockholders. Since
wrecking a property, as he planned it, proved quite as profitable as building
it into a dividend payer, he acted consistently upon the conviction that "all
is permitted" which can be successfully accomplished.

Edward H. Harriman in pursuit of railroad dictatorship was a tyrant, harsh and
overbearing, terrible in his crushing directness and absolutely without tact.
The financier who was perhaps Mr. Harriman's closest associate once exclaimed,
when his partner suggested that some friend of Mr. Harriman's ought to speak to
him frankly on the unwisdom of his lack of tact: "Friend! I don't believe that
Harriman has a friend in the world!"

The Public Revolt Against Misused Power

Yet, some years ago when accounts of their enterprises occupied places of
prominence in newspapers and magazines, these four men were regarded as highly
successful captains

of industry and their careers even to the narrow spirit in which they achieved
were considered worthy models. In fact, there seems abundant reason to believe
that the typical captain of industry a generation since was actuated only by a
philosophy of getting; his supreme concern being revealed in this test of any
proposal, "Does it yield me what I seek?" Ruthless power for the sake of
pecuniary return was their ruling motive because the reins of power always
tingle in the hands of a strong man and the one sure evidence of achievement
then lay in material possessions.

Wealth did flow in upon these men. But the conviction gradually became current
in the business community that this gain on the part of the captains of
industry was due to the disturbance they created rather than to their
productive effort. The real social advantage that resulted from much of their
organizing ability was obscured by the grasping avarice, the foul play in
competition, the contempt for moral and legal obligations, and the utter
absence of any social conscience, shown in their business relations. These men
who for material gain sacrificed conscience and honor and trampled on all
social right, after a time irritated the public into a condition of enmity hard
to overcome.

In its practical application this public indignation has been responsible for a
wide variety of repressive and regulative measures—for public distrust, "soap
box" and Chautauqua agitators, "muckrakers," investigating commissions, public
utility and railroad commissions, anti-trust legislation, income and
inheritance taxes, and the increased demand for government ownership and
operation. The net result of such measures is to make customary—and frequently
legal as well —a stricter and more specific code of rules for the business
game. The controller of an enterprise is under scrutiny that he compete, and
fairly too; and the umpire is increasingly watchful and jealous of his power.

The "Public be Served" Policy

There are those who regret the good old days; who consider the brutal and
remorseless competition, the disregard of law and fair play, the selfish
scramble for money and power, as in themselves something admirable and
resulting in the survival of the fittest. Such as these see in fair play, .
submission to law, and consideration for employees and the rights of the
public, only weakness and degeneration. They say that business is in danger of
becoming a parlor game, with men in their most fierce competition restricted to
bon mots and banquets. Is there any truth in this theory? It is true that
rough-and-tumble individualism is gone never to return; yet after all the game,
although changed, requires not less but a different kind of skill. The old
system emphasized the strenuous competition, the production of material goods
in vast amount, the heaping up of mighty fortunes. The new system, which lays
more stress upon fair trade and the rights of employees, has material goods so
distributed as to make for friendship, happiness and idealism among men. The
old system had for its slogan "The public be damned!" the new system selects as
its watch-word "The public be served!"

The Corporation Discovers Its Soul

The legal restrictions now imposed upon the conduct of business by public
sentiment are supplemented and made more searching through the influence of the
company's stockholders, employees, and customers. The stockholders, because
they are so numerous and in general unidentified, have all but obliterated the
distinction between owner and public, a result which, needless to say, widens
immeasurably the responsibility of the company's officials.

The employees who are to drive a large-scale enterprise at its maximum capacity
require careful selection, training, and such incentives in wages and esprit de
corps as will grip each man and impel him to do his best. The satisfying of
these requirements by the management calls for the human touch, for the
executive qualities which characterize the expert social engineer.

The customers are reached through advertising, a method of marketing which
standardizes quality and renders misrepresentation suicidal; and the
advertising is followed up by salesmen armed with the strongest selling tool
shrewd salesmanagers have yet been able to devise, the appeal to
selfinterest—what our goods will do for you—in other words, service. The
proprietor might work from entirely selfish motives and because of his superior
ability higgle successfully with customers. But with the average salesman,
particularly in retailing, such a policy is dangerous. Far better the one-price
system, the "quality" article which begets the salesman's confidence, the
conviction amounting almost to a certainty that these goods are for the
prospect's own best interest—since these things give him power to insist, a
dynamic friendship. "Here is the thing in a nutshell," as that prince of
sales-managers, President Cottingham, puts it, "merit begets confidence,
confidence begets enthusiasm, and enthusiasm conquers the world."

In trying to solve the very practical question of how best to deal with
stockholders, employees and customers, the corporation has discovered its own
soul. The best methods of financing, production and marketing, it has found to
depend upon high standards of truth, fairness and service, and these when
practiced have resulted in a profit-producing power far in excess of interest
and replacement return on tangible assets, a good-will which so long as it can
be held deserves its inclusion quite as much as plant or real estate in the
capitalization.

The Executive's Service Ideals

What of the man at the top? As a fountain head of an organization throbbing
with business idealism, the old narrow, greedy type assuredly cannot serve.
Changing conditions evolve new standards of selection and due to these a
different sort of business executive has now risen into prominence, emphasizing
the co-operative virtues with service as his keynote.

"Ultimately," so runs the creed of Judge Gary, head today of the world's
greatest corporation, "efficiency is based upon a policy of life which
considers first the claims, needs and deserts of the other fellow. Generous
motives, fair principles, and honest dealings are vastly more important as
efficiency measures than the technical phases of skilled management and
economical production."

This creed announced by Judge Gary, which he and hundreds of other leaders in
finance and industry practice today, would have impressed the magnates of the
old school as too ethical for practical purposes. Yet men of the new school are
not finding it so.

"Most men who have really lived," declared the railroad king, James J. Hill,
whose death was widely mourned as a national loss, "have had in some shape
their great adventure. This railroad is mine." Note the words. The Great
Northern was to Hill a great adventure although he accepted no salaries serving
as its President, Chairman of the Board, or Director; refused at all times to
use his inside information in manipulating the stock market; and, as an
instance among numerous acts of like nature though less in the amounts
involved, turned over to its stockholders at cost the Missabe ore lands whose
purchase price, paid by his own money, was $4,000,000 but whose real value, it
has been estimated, is $750,000,000.

Great adventures, in truth, are open to the business man now as heretofore. But
society, wedded to the principle of democracy and insistent upon such an
equalization of opportunity and reward as will in general evoke the full powers
of all, demands that these great adventures be confined to projects socially
expedient and that their promoters accept not a lesser but a somewhat different
type of reward.

"The dividend which the business man seeks and receives today is not alone in
dollars," explains Andrew Carnegie, an enterpriser of the old school who is
remarkably adaptive to the new order, nay, more than that, its active promoter.
"He receives with the dollar something better—a dividend in the shape of
satisfaction in being instrumental in carrying forward to higher stages of
development the business which he makes his life work."

Development of Social Consciousness

The development of a more vivid social consciousness constitutes for most men
perhaps as difficult a task as any. In reality, however, it calls only for the
inclusion of more persons and more territory within the scope of the relations
which men usually exercise so well in narrow circles, such as the family, the
club, or the neighborhood. This means that a man is to recognize his wider
obligations and perform them with something of the flesh-and-blood interest
which closer obligations always have received:

"Every man who by eminent success in commerce or finance raises himself beyond
his peers," says Otto Kahn, the well-known financier, "is in the nature of
things more or less of an 'irritant' (I use the word in its technical meaning)
to the community.

"It behooves him, therefore, to make his position as little jarring as possible
upon that immense majority of men whose existence is spent in the lowlands of
life so far as material circumstances are concerned.

"It behooves him to remember that many other men are working, and have worked
all their lives, with probably as much effort and assiduous application, as
much self-abnegation as he, but have not succeeded in raising themselves above
mediocre stations in life, because to them has not been granted the possession
of those peculiar gifts which beget conspicuous success, and to which, because
they are very rare and because they are needed for the world's work, is given
the incentive of liberal reward."

The Enduring Satisfaction of Business

The broad tolerance and consideration for others, of which Mr. Kahn speaks,
prevailed in an inspiring way during the Great War. Men of affairs, engineers,
executives, and financiers, in the finest of spirit disregarding every
opportunity for personal profit, served their country whole-heartedly because
it was their country and the ideals for which they as Americans stood were at
stake. They endured and conquered with a morale which was irresistible.

The ideals maintained steadfastly and so high, it may be, cannot continue
unchanged now that the threat of Teuton domination is withdrawn; but the lofty
unselfishness, the wholehearted service of which we justly are proud, shall in
part at least remain as a permanent gain. The idea of business as merely the
satisfaction of sordid desires, the exploitation of opportunity for personal
ends solely, the willingness to wreck quite as readily as to upbuild provided
only it were profitable, have in the love of higher things and the imperious
call for sacrifice of self lost in large measure their old-time appeal.

The war thus has hastened a process which inevitably, like a ferment, has been
for years working itself out in business. Its ideal is service, its purpose the
common good, its slogan democracy, its achieving instruments all forwardlooking
men. Executives enlisted in this movement not only make America the magnificent
but secure for themselves the enduring satisfactions of business.

Exercises

In this, the final exercise, let us ponder over certain questions which reach
down to fundamentals and lay bare our philosophy of life.

1. Whom do you admire as ideal business men? What qualities render them to you
ideal?

2. Whom do you regard as high-placed misfits? What qualities in them does it
appear desirable to avoid?

3. Do you or do you not consider service the foundation of success in business?

4. Through what concrete ways can you keep your business ideals high?

5. What to you are the ends most to be desired in the business career?

The answering of these questions sincerely and fully calls for a searching of
the heart such as a man permits himself only when in silence alone he thinks
over the deeper problems of destiny.

CHAPTER XXVII

THE GOAL WHICH MOVES FORWARD

The first concern of every man is to know that he is achieving something,
advancing in material wealth, industrial, power, intellectual strength and
moral purpose.

—James J. Hill.

Yourself That is To Be

In the foregoing chapters various principles and details have been considered
which, put into practice, increase executive ability. Considered separately
some of these principles may have seemed trifling. Even though they be trifles,
however, they all go to build up the able executive, and the man who aspires
will utilize them to his advantage. In order that principle and detail may be
fitted into that consistent program which moves a man forward, the young
executive needs a vision of the self that is to be.

The executive's development and management of himself is the most vital problem
in business, because none other lies so near the heart of his concern's
prosperity or failure. Up at the top of every business—at the apex of its
pyramid of functions—sits someone to whom all lines, wires and paths of
communication lead, the focus of countless records, problems, and plans; from
whom radiate the policies, the initiative, and the spirit which write the
future of the enterprise. No other position is so hard to fill, because no
other man must be so well rounded and evenly poised.

Men are not well rounded and evenly poised by chance, but become so only after
more or less arduous and long continued effort. They must grow into the self
that is to be.

Utilizing the Concrete Opportunities

The man who looks forward will appreciate the fact, repeatedly emphasized in
the foregoing chapters and exercises, that the development of oneself is the
practical thing that leads to executive success. The program has been outlined
and the concrete opportunities are here.

The executive cannot walk upon the streets, enter the public library, glance
through the newspapers, consult the journals which treat his specialty,
converse with people worth knowing, or observe the progress of his friends
without becoming a wiser man. More than this he cannot fully discharge the
responsibilities of his position without at the same time broadening his
horizon and deepening his powers, because under the conditions of today, which
will be increasingly true of conditions tomorrow, all the opportunities and the
means needed by the executive for his self-development can be compressed into
the terse phrase study your business.

"I can confidently recommend to you the business career," declares Andrew
Carnegie, "as one in which there is abundant room for the exercise of man's
highest power and of every good quality in human nature. I believe the career
of the great merchant or banker or captain of industry to be favorable to the
development of the powers of the mind and to the ripening of the judgment upon
a wide range of general subjects; to freedom from prejudice and keeping of an
open mind."

The possibilities which Mr. Carnegie discovers in the business career can be
realized by any man who in the right spirit studies his business. Needless to
say this study should never in the case of the executive be simply a matter of
mental gymnastics but comprehensive carefulness of thought followed hard by
performance. Study your business when translated literally means do your best.

A wonderful efficiency adheres in this simple rule. The man who does his best
invariably grows. Each task upon its completion leaves him an expanded
capacity, a fertility of resource, and a tested strength which increasing with
the years represents self-development continuously actualized.

The Road to Mastery—and Its Side Paths

How far shall this process of self-development be carried? Since human nature
is never cast once for all in a mold but under the proper treatment is subject
to a continual refashioning, every man is, in a very real sense, the architect
of his own fortunes. Accordingly this inquiry may at practically any time arise
in his mind. What lies before me—what further progress can I make?

While not often do men openly boast that they have reached the pinnacle of
possible success, the drive-killing thought that already the goal is won limits
generations of business men. The plaudits of a small organization or community,
the subtle voice of flattery coming from within, too often prove seductive and,
like the songs of Delilah, bind the unwary man to perpetual mediocrity.

The real test of a man is his conduct under prosperity.

Does it steal away the hard drive, the terrific pace which has advanced him
heretofore? Does it leave him self-satisfied and complaisant, an easy prey to
the first lusty competitor? Does it distort beyond measure his ego and
substitute rashness for sound judgment? Does it induce him to throw away his
program of efficiency, since he now has attained all that is humanly desirable?

"As our success began to come," remarks John D. Rockefeller in reminiscencing
over the early days in the oil industry, "I seldom put my head upon the pillow
at night without speaking a few words in this wise: 'Now a little success, soon
you will fall down, soon you will be overthrown. Because you have got a start
you think you are quite a merchant; look out

or you will lose your head—go steady.' These intimate conversations with
myself, I am sure, had a great influence on my life. I was afraid I could not
stand my prosperity, and tried to teach myself not to get puffed up with any
foolish notions."

The Man Who Moves Forward

The real builders of American business have maintained balance consistently—as
they moved forward. In the small towns and farming communities from which they
were recruited, they, too, were once proffered by admiring friends the same
chloroform which the circumscribed usually accept with such shallow pleasure.
But in their case the antidote was effectual: They possessed the power to grow
and their goal was one which moved forward.

Who would not emulate them and likewise enjoy the profits and the enduring
satisfactions which go with achievement? Deep down in his heart a man finds but
one answer to this question: "I too will attain my maximum." With the
principles and methods of self development and management as a program, he
disciplines and refines his native capacity, training, directing and nurturing
it in faith and hope and charity.

The result is as certain as anything humanly predictable. The man who
faithfully schools himself in these principles and methods of personal
management can with perfect confidence leave the future to itself; growth will
take place and the harvest is his.

PART IX
WHAT TO READ

Ample and accurate information is the best step toward success for everyone;
and the world of historic fact, economic fact, and scientific fact, with the
bearing of each upon the probable future of human effort, is now so large that
a man will find his business too little for his desire to equip himself with
knowledge.—J. J. H1ll.

/ work always, I ponder things deeply. If I scent always ready to reply to
anything, to confront anything, it is because, before undertaking anything, I
have thought it over for a long time; I have foreseen everything that can
happen. It is not genius that reveals to me suddenly what I must say or do on
occasions which take others by surprise, it is reflection; meditation. I work
all the time.—Napoleon.

CHAPTER XXVIII

INTELLECTUAL PREPAREDNESS

For I dipt into the future, far

As human eye could see;
Saw the vision of the world, and

All the wonder that shall be.

—Tennyson.

The Future Business Leader

In the doing of today's work a man should train his powers with an eye upon
tomorrow. This means nothing more than foresight applied to personal
management; a preparing now for future business leadership.

This executive to come, this leader who will swing the enterprises which are to
be, will necessarily possess a superior capacity. No petty trader, no putterer
over details, no mere hoarder can handle the complex relations of such an
enterprise nor deal efficiently with the broad-gauge problems which
characterize its development. These are matters for whose solution an executive
must dig deep into economics, sociology, the relations of capital and labor,
and the complex problems of government and social well-being. He will have to
work with lawyers, engineers, chemists, statesmen and economists. He must of
necessity be as well educated, as well trained, as well disciplined as they.

Broadness of perception and sympathy will be required. This business leader of
the future will sense the inner desires of subordinates, employees, and
customers, and plan almost intuitively their gratification. He will know the
public— the common people, the citizens of his country. Policies and methods of
doing business he will shape with due consideration for the rights and
sentiments of all those whom he sees fit to regard broadly as his co-workers.

The leader in a free country necessarily has to be an abler man than the
autocrat who rules a race of slaves with an iron hand. The executive who
dominates a factory, a commercial house or a financial institution in a society
of intelligent and civilized people, jealous of their own rights, quick to note
fraud, injustice or oppression, must be a different type from the profiteers,
the audacious business barons, the commercial freebooters who upon occasion
dominated in the past.

Constructive business team-work is something higher and more difficult in its
leadership than bossing a section gang; the commanding of intelligent and
capable subordinates calls for more skill than being mate over a crew of rough
sailors; to guide a business enterprise in a civilized and enlightened
community when the rules of the game protect stockholder, employee and consumer
is a more complex undertaking than was the pioneer's rough and ready task.
Business, simply because it mounts constantly toward a higher plane, demands of
its leaders an increased capacity.

Self-Culture in Business

The man who purposes in all seriousness to develop within himself the increased
capacity demanded of the future executive will wring valuable knowledge from
every experience. Conferences, conventions, technical experts, friends and
chance acquaintances, books, trade journals, mishaps, successes, and problems
faced, alike serve him as stepping stones toward a broader knowledge and a
firmer grasp of business. This is quite as it should be; the seeker of positive
impulses will get ahead.

Opportunity is here and the time is now; seek those positive impulses. If
satisfactory progress is not being attained, it requires only an examination of
some notable career, such

as that of Lincoln, Roosevelt, Marshall Field, Carnegie, or Schwab, to realize
how puerile are the excuses for nonadvancement with which a man is accustomed
to solace himself! "I never had a chance to go to college." "I have no time."
"I cannot afford it." "I am too tired to study." Humiliation should overcome
the person who in these days of abundant opportunities for self-culture thus
deludes himself. Being fundamentally untrue, these excuses prove only that his
intentions are not serious.

The college diploma of itself does not guarantee success; it does signify
training, and the trained mind must then carve its own future. But this
training which the colleges offer, a great many master achievers have seen fit
to work out for themselves in the midst of practical affairs. By persistent
self-direction they broadened their knowledge, disciplined their powers, and
developed fertility and resource in solving problems. This persistance it was,
and neither the possession of a college diploma nor the lack of it, which made
them great.

Making the Most of Opportunity

Twenty-four hours a day is granted each man: no one has more. While the
possibilities of spare moments are truly astonishing as can be proved by
whoever will assiduously utilize them, they are far surpassed by the
possibilities of studying as we work. Since each task, no matter how humble it
be, is connected up with all other activities of the organization and through
those with business in general, it remains for a man to determine whether, a
passive toiler, he shall degenerate into a cog, or alert and positive, eager to
inquire and insatiable for knowledge, he makes of business a real profession.

The man who refuses to develop himself in the belief he cannot afford the time
and money closes his eyes to the wastes disclosed by Bradstreet's. Incompetence
in 1915 wrecked 5,689 businesses, inexperience cost an additional 1,057
failures, lack of capital 5,229 more. Who loses money when the proprietor
refuses to study finance and business management, or to profit by the
experience of successful men? Yet these actual losses are much less and
scarcely more deplorable than the failure to secure those profits which the
trained man does secure. The efficient man does more than avoid losses; he
discovers profits otherwise hidden and makes them real. To him the cost of
self-development is truly not expense but investment.

The condition of being too tired commonly indicates nothing more than faulty
habits of diet, posture and breath control, insufficient sleep and exercise,
needless strains and unproductive expenditures, and particularly a flabby will
unable to transform sluggishness into force and vital power. Selfdevelopment
can alter these below-par conditions since its program deals with both the
production of force and its proper conservation, a program of personal dynamics
which the tired man most of all needs.

These and sundry other excuses which would make us victims of our "worser"
selves can all be routed in one way or another by whomsoever desires to grow.
This expresses in one sentence the message which the nation's most revered hero
illuminated by his entire life.

The Making of a Great Character

The rude life of the backwoods in the midst of which he was born and where his
early years were spent might well have appeared fated to yield Abraham Lincoln
an equally commonplace and secluded career. No doubt this would have occurred
had he not laid hold of every opportunity for selfimpro 'ement, of which the
following instance is typical.

"One day a man who was migrating to the West," said Mr. Lincoln in relating the
incident several years later, "drove up in front of my store with a wagon which
contained his family and household plunder. He asked me if I would buy an old
barrel for which he had no room in his wagon, and which he said contained
nothing of special value. I did not want it, but to oblige him I bought it, and
paid him, I think, half a dollar for it. Without further examination I put it
away in the store, and forgot all about it. Sometime after, in overhauling
things, I came upon the barrel, and emptying it upon the floor to see what it
contained, I found at the bottom of the rubbish a complete edition of
Blackstone's Commentaries. I began to read this famous work, and I had plenty
of time; for during the long summer days, when the farmers were busy with their
crops, my customers were few and far between. The more I read the more
intensely interested I became. Never in my whole life was my mind so thoroughly
absorbed. I read until I devoured them."

This instance, one of many of like nature, reveals a great character in the
process of being forged. In the log cabins of the pioneers poring over the only
copy of Kirkham's Grammar the community afforded, in the country debating
societies developing his ability as a public speaker, in the stuffy hotel
bedroom with a candle by his side studying the demonstrations in the first six
books of Euclid while his brother lawyers slept, in court-room, halls of
Congress or White House, Lincoln was always exhibiting the one trait which more
than any other accounts for his marvelous advance—power to grow.

The man who determines that he, too, shall grow must not stop at that. He must
supply his mind with the materials with which growth can take place. The
reading of good business books, supplementing as it does the preceding chapters
and exercises, aids most decidedly in charting the way toward broader
conceptions.

A good book has compressed into its pages the author's life experience, and the
reading of it affords an entirely feasible method of increasing the mental
stature.

CHAPTER XXIX

BOOKS FOR THE BUSINESS MAN

The man who applies himself seriously to thinking will by and by be amazed to
find out how much there is to think about.—Otto H. Kahn.

A Broad Effectiveness

In order to render the reading of the books which follow more systematic, the
various titles are grouped in such a way that a more or less organized course
of study results. The divisions themselves in each case cover subjects of such
importance that whoever studies them will inevitably broaden his horizon, train
his powers, and make himself to a greater degree an educated person.

Business Management

The study of personal management naturally merges into business management in
general. The books here specified excellently present various important phases
of business management.

Taylor, Frederick W. The Principles of Scientific Management. Harper Bros., New
York. 1911.

Gowin, Enoch Burton. The Executive and His Control of Men. The Macmillan Co.,
New York. 1915.

Galloway, Lee. Office Management. Ronald Press Co., New York. 1918.

Jones, Edward D. The Administration of Industrial Enterprises. Longmans, Green
& Co., New York. 1916.

Diemer, Hugo. Factory Organization and Administration. McGrawHill Publishing
Co., New York. 1910.

Thompson, Clarence B. Scientific Management; a collection of the most
significant articles describing the Taylor system of management. Harvard
University Press. 1914.

Twyford, H. B. Purchasing. D. Van Nostrand & Co., New York. I9I5

Twyford, H. B. Storing. D. Van Nostrand & Co., New York. 1918.

Marketing

All executives in an organization are concerned, either directly or indirectly,
in the sale of the company's product. This sales activity has received careful
thought of late years, much of the results of which will be found presented in
summarized form in the following books:

Nystrom, Paul H. Economics of Retailing. Ronald Press Co., New York. 1919.

Cherington, Paul T. Advertising as a Business Force. Doubleday,

Page & Co., New York. 1913.
Tipper, Hotchkiss, Hollingworth, and Parsons. Advertising—Its

Principles and Practice. Ronald Press Co., New York. 1919.
Fisk, James W. Retail Selling; a guide to the best modern practice.

Harper Bros., New York. 1916.
Whitehead, Harold. Principles of Salesmanship. Ronald Press Co.,

New York. 1917.

Finance

The development of the corporate form of organization and the necessity for a
closer financial control through budgets, emphasizes strongly to the modern
executive the importance of a thorough knowledge of finance. The careful
reading of these books will go far to supply such knowledge.

Dewing, A. S. The Financial Policy of Corporations. Ronald Press

Co., New York. 1919.
Lyon, Walter H. Corporation Finance. Houghton Mifflin Co.,

Boston. 1916.

Pratt, Sereno S. The Work of Wall Street. D. Appleton & Co.,

New York. 1912.
Clay, Paul. Sound Investing. Moody Magazine and Book Co.,

New York. 1915.
Lough, William H. Business Finance. Ronald Press Co., New

York. 1917.

Babson, Roger W. Business Barometers Used in the Accumulation of Money.
Babson's Statistical Organization, Boston. 1916.

Conyngton, Thomas. Corporate Organization and Management. Ronald Press Co., New
York. 1918.

Accounting

The necessity of adequate records and the various steps in the process from
original entry to balance sheet were indicated in a preceding chapter. The
following works discuss all such matters with a considerable thoroughness, and
thus supply information essential to the well-rounded executive.

Kester, Roy B. Accounting, Theory and Practice. Ronald Press Co.,

New York. Vol. I 1917. Vol. II 1918.
Klein, Joseph J. Elements of Accounting; Theory and Practice.

D. Appleton & Co., New York. 1915.

Hatfield, Henry R. Modern Accounting. D. Appleton & Co., New York. 1909.

Esquerre, Paul J. Applied Theory of Accounts. Ronald Press Co.,

New York. 1914.
Montgomery, Robert H. Auditing, Theory and Practice. Ronald

Press Co., New York. 1916.
Nicholson, J. Lee and Rohrbach, J. F. D. Cost Accounting. Ronald

Press Co., New York. 1919.

Economics

The foregoing books present phases of business with which every executive has
to deal. It may be that he deals with them at such close range that he cannot
"see the woods for the trees." At any rate, whether he is overburdened with
details or simply wishes a comprehensive view in order to increase
effectiveness, economics will prove helpful, since, with respect to the above
four subjects, it deals with general principles.

Carver, Thomas N. Principles of Political Economy. Ginn & Co., Boston. 1919.

Ely, Richard T. and Wicker, George R. Elementary Principles of Economics. The
Macmillan Co., New York. 1917.

Taussig, Frank W. Principles of Economics. The MacMillan Co.,

New York. 1918.
Haney, Lewis H. Business Organization and Combination. The

Macmillan Co., New York. 1914.

Business Law

A knowledge of business law is a decided asset to any executive, even though he
is not a specialist in charge of the legal phases of his company's business.
The following books present the essentials of business law in an interesting
and nontechnical way.

Conyngton, Thomas. Business Law. Ronald Press Co., New

York. 1918.
Huffcut, E. W. Elements of Business Law. Ginn & Co., Boston.

1917.
Parson, T. Laws of Business. S. S. Scranton Co., Hartford,

Conn. 1914.
Sullivan, John J. American Business Law. D. Appleton & Co., New

York. 1912.

The Scientific Method

The executive should know business thoroughly, that is certain; yet in order to
do this he must be a scientist. While this does not mean that he shall work
with test tubes and laboratory, it does imply that the methods of science are
to mold his habits of thought. The attainment of this much-to-bedesired result
will be hastened through the study of the books which follow.

Dewey, John. How We Think. D. C. Heath & Co., New York. 1910.

Creighton, James C. Introductory Logic. The Macmillan Co., New York. 1909.

Copeland, Melvin T. Business Statistics. Harvard University Press. 1917.

Brinton, Willard C. Graphic Methods for Presenting Facts. Engineering Magazine
Co., New York. 1914.

Pearson, Karl. Grammar of Science. The Macmillan Co., New York. 1911.

Health and Mind Culture

The securing of the most effective results from his own body and mind is about
as practical as any problem with which the executive can be faced. It is the
purpose of health and mind culture to apply science in this respect to a
person's management of himself.

Fisher, Irving and Fisk, Eugene Lyman. How to Live; rules for healthful living,
based on modern science. Funk and Wagnalls, New York. 1917.

Sadler, William Samuel. Science and Living; or the art of keeping well. McClure
Book Co., New York. 1910.

Seashore, Carl Emil. Psychology in Daily Life. D. Appleton & Co., New York.
1913.

James, William. Talks to Teachers on Psychology: and to students on some of
life's ideals. Henry Holt & Co., New York. 1899.

Bennett, Enoch Arnold. How to Live on Twenty-Four Hours a Day. The Doran Co.,
New York. 1910.

Marden, O. S. Pushing to the Front. Crowell Publishing Co., New York. 1911.

Hollingworth, H. C. and Poffenberger, A. T. Applied Psychology. D. Appleton &
Co., New York. 1917.

Natural and Social Sciences

The study of natural and social sciences very likely will impress the average
reader as more interesting and quite as helpful as that of the scientific
method. Certain of the books cited bear directly upon business problems and all
of them afford in addition to their information an extremely valuable point of
view.

Scott, Walter D. Influencing Men in Business. Ronald Press Co.,

New York. 1916.
Tead, Ordway. Instincts in Industry. Houghton Mifflin Co., New

York. 1918.

Ward, L. F. Applied Psychology. Ginn & Co., Boston.

Blackman, F. W. and Gillen, J. R. Outlines of Sociology. The Mac

millan Co., New York. 1915. Judd, John W. Coming of Evolution. (Cambridge
Manuals of

Science and Literature.) Putnam's, New York. 1910.

Jordan, David Starr and Kellogg, V. L. Animal Life. D. Appleton

& Co., New York. Hollingworth, Harry L. Vocational Psychology; its problems and

methods. D. Appleton & Co., New York. 1916. Brigham, Albert P. A Text Book of
Geology. D. Appleton & Co.,

New York. 1901.

Biography

When forging ahead in business a man often feels the need of that inner
rejuvenation of the spirit which comes best from the study of some great
character. Biographies such as the following thus perform a useful service.

Roosevelt, Theodore. Autobiography. The Macmillan Co., New

York. 1913.
Pyle, V. G. Life of J. J. Hill. Doubleday, Page & Co., New York.

1917.
Tarbell, Ida M. The Life of Abraham Lincoln. The Macmillan Co.,

New York. 1900: 1911.
Franklin, Benjamin. Autobiography. Not copyrighted.
Rockefeller, John D. Random Reminiscences of Men and Events.

Doubleday, Page & Co., New York. 1909.
Forbes, B. C. Men Who Are Making America. B. C. Forbes Co.,

Inc., New York. 1917.
Johnston, R. M. The Corsican: a diary of Napoleon's life in his own

words. Houghton, Mifflin Co., New York. 1910.

Correspondence Courses

The demand of executives for a knowledge of business broader and sounder than
heretofore has resulted not only in the writing of many books but also in the
development of correspondence courses devoted to business principles and
methods. The service afforded by the better of these schools is worthy of
consideration by the progressive business man.

Current Publications

The careful reading of the best business publications, such as the following,
keeps a man mentally alive and up-to-date. System. Monthly. A. W. Shaw Co.,
Chicago.

Printers' Ink. Weekly. Printers' Ink Publishing Co., New York.

Industrial Management. Monthly. The Engineering Magazine Co..

New York.
Factory. Monthly. A. W. Shaw Co., Chicago.
Journal of Accountancy. Monthly. Ronald Press Co., New York.

INDEX

Ability,
opportunities numerous for use

of, 7
salary proportioned to, 5

Acceleration, by graphic presenta-
tion, 274-277

Accounting, list of books on, 472

Accuracy, as a test of reasoning, 238-
242

Action, thought followed by, 185

Advancement, in position, conditions
affecting, 5-6

Agar-agar, Japanese intestinal rem-
edy, 308

Air, as an energizer, 302-304

Alertness, a business asset, 202-203,
211-213

American Magazine, The, 122
quotations from, on Roosevelt's
handling of callers, 154-155

American Society of Mechanical En-
gineers,
rules of, for standardization of
graphic methods, 286-288

Amiability, as a business asset, 439

Analogy, accuracy of, in testing ideas,
239-240

Analysis,

importance of, 220-222

of executive's problems, 232-247

problems in, 242-244

Animal psychology, lesson from, 159-
160

Annalist, The, reports in, 260-262

Appearances, personal, 442-443

Apprenticeship, for high executive
positions, 15

Architect's office system, 54

Army, lessons in physical energy
from our, 314-315

Association, rules of, as factors in
memory, 92-96

Atmosphere of achievement, 329-330

Attention, as a factor in will-power,

323-325
Auditor's daily schedule, 115

B

Babson's Statistical Organization,
publications by, 265-266

Bacon, Lord, quoted on defects of
human understanding, 224-225

Bahnsen, quoted on moral will, 185

Bain, Professor, quoted on mental
progress, 186-187

Balanced judgment, maintained con-
sistently, 462

Bank cashier's daily schedule, 117

Bank clearings, as index of volume
of business, 262-263

Barbour, George H., quoted on de-
veloping personality, 440

Barometers, business, 259-270

Bedford, A. C, quoted on reasons for
advancement in position, 9-10

Berthelot, French General, graphic
methods used by, in the Great
War, 275-276

Bethlehem Steel Co., experiment at,
in scientific management, 427-
428

Bibliography of business, 470-476

Big dreamy idea, the, 139-140

Biographies, list of, 475

Boards, use in displaying data, 279-
280

Books for the business man, 470-476

Borrowing as a method of financing
a business, 391-394

Bradstreet's "index numbers," 261
records of business wastes, 467-468

Bran, simple remedy for constipation,
308

British Government, commercial
agent for U. S., 434

Brookmire Economic Service,
chart from, 268
publications of, 265-266

"Brain-box," idea file, 34-37
"Brain foods," 357
Budget plan, for controlling expendi-
tures, 377-379
Burke, Edmund, quoted on develop-
ment of mental attitudes, 332
"Business Law," by Thomas Conyng-

ton, quotation from, 410-411
Business time for business, 161
Buyers, course for, needed, 377
Buying periods for securities, 385
By-products, utilization of, by large
scale businesses, 423

Callers, handling of, 145-155
Calories, measure of food values, 298,

209
Camp, Walter, health suggestions of,

317
Capital,
productive, 380

sufficient, a factor in successful en-
terprise, 368, 370, 397-399
Capitalizing attainments as habits,

chart for, 192
Carbon copies, as short-cuts, 166
Carey, General, extemporized army

of, 455
Carnegie, Andrew, quoted on,
business men, rewards of, 456
development, personal, through the

business career, 460
investments, 384
judgment, business, 218
opportunities, business, 201
Cash payments, plan of, 376-377
Cash register, the first, 202-203
Cassatt, President of Pennsylvania
Railroad, encouragement of
new ideas by, 207
Centralization of ownership, devel-
opment of, 418-422
Cerebellum, director of voluntary

muscles, 181
Cerebrum, the general manager, 181-

183
Chain store system, 420-421
Chalmers, Hugh, 126-127
Chance, elimination of, 251-252
Character, the premier co-operative

virtue, 438-439
Charge accounts, disadvantages of,

37^377

Charts, use of, in graphic presenta-
tion, 278-284

Check marks,
chart illustrating, 162
use of, to save writing, 161-162

Cleveland, Grover, thorough studies
of, 221

Clothes, 442-443

Clouston, Scottish physician, quoted
on relaxation, 349-350

Color schemes, as short-cuts, 166

Commercial instinct, as a guard
against impractical enthusi-
asms, 215-217

Communication, devices for office,
55-56

Concentration, mental, 323-326, 341

Confidence, a business asset, 391-392

Conservation,
human, 350-351
of time, 161

"Constants," a type of daily activi-
ties, 112-113

Constipation, worst of anti-efficiency
maladies, 307-309

Constructive and routine thought, 195

Control curves, figure for, 284

Conyngton, Thomas, quotation from
"Business Law" by, 410-411

Co-operation, 434-447
as a factor in dispatching work,

142-145 . _,

executive, must lead the way tn, 80

test chart on, 447
Corporation,

description of, 395-397

discovers its soul, 453-455
Correspondence,

dictation of, 165
machines for, 166

dispatch in handling of, 165

form letters, 171-172

form paragraphs for, 167-172

training secretaries to handle, 76-79
Correspondence courses, 475
Costs, elements of, figure, 252
Cottingham, Walter H.,

"Forward Again Campaign" of,

327-329
quoted on,
ideal of service, 454
importance of having aims, 107
"playing the game," 446

Creative,
thinking, 209-211

work, influence of habit upon, 187-
188

Currency statistics, as index to busi-
ness conditions, 264

Curtis Commercial Research Divi-
sion, report by, on business
done by leading stores, 420

Curves, the graphic device par ex-
cellence, 284-286

Cycles of business, 259

Davison, Henry, P., selection of, as
partner to J. P. Morgan, anec-
dote, 395

Day'9 work,
file, 47-49

four usual types of tasks in, no-ill
Decision, a factor in mental economy,
354

Definite accomplishment, 340-341

Definition of terms, first step in test-
ing an idea, 235

Delegation of details, chart for per-
sonal test for, 82

Department stores, 420

Desk,

executive's workshop, 44
tools, 52-53. 61-62
Details,

delegation of, to subordinates, by
John D. Rockefeller, 65

personal test of handling, chart
for, 82

principles of handling, 21-24
Dewey, Professor, quoted on the

trained mind, 227-228
Dictation, machines for, 166
Dictograph, use of, by executive, 55
Diet, healthful, 298-301
Discipline, self, 333-334
Diseases,
mortality from seven worst, 295
wastes from preventable, 295-297
Dispatching,
railroad, 135-136
the day's work,
preparations for, 140-141
test chart for, 158
Distractions, elimination of, 353,
354

Distribution, improvements in,

merchandise, chart showing, 419
opportunities for, 198
Domination, mental, 321-322
Drugs, habit-forming, 305-306
Duke, James B., quoted on qualities
necessary to business success,
10

Dun's "index numbers," 264

Easton, President of Columbia
Graphophone Co., quoted on
importance of system and fore-
sight, 108

Economics, list of books on, 472

Economy,
mental, 337-361

of well-planned activities, 112-113
Edison, Thomas A.,
ability in choosing essentials, 223
practical inventor, 216-217
quoted on,
persistence, value of, to inventor,

318-319
sleeping habits, 347
Education, 466-476
improvement, need and means of,
466-469

Efficient management a factor in suc-
cessful enterprise, 368-370

Emerson, Harrington, quoted on rail-
road dispatching, 135-136

Emerson, Ralph Waldo, quoted on
health, 297 -

Essential,
data, 256

facts, gained through graphic pres-
entation, 277
Essentials, getting at, 222-224
Evidence, testing of, 232-236
Executive,
ability, demand for, 7-8
advancement of, conditions affect-
ing, 5-6

capacity, test chart for rating, 433
duties of, diagram showing analy-
sis of, 431
essentials of work of, 426-427
must delegate and standardize, 80-
81

observation of the successful,
learning through, 12

opportunities of, in American in-
dustries, 7

Executive (Continued)
position of, diagram showing, 430
qualities necessary for advance-
ment, quotation on, 9-10
salaries, 5

securing of, within an organiza-
tion, 8
Extension courses, 408

Fads versus common sense, 356-359
Faraday, Michael, quoted on selection

of ideas, 230
Farnham, Dwight T., quoted on value

of graphic presentation, 290
Farwell, John V., quoted on having

definite aims, 125
Fatigue and inefficiency, 339-341,

345-346

Field, William A., quoted on,
delegation and standardization by

executives, 80
function of the manager, 429
Field, Superintendent of Illinois Steel
Co., quoted on means of devel-
oping new ideas, 208

Filing,
short-cuts of, 163-164
systems,

for executive's desk, 47-50
forms of, 33-34
purposes of, 32-33
tests for, 40-42
uses of, 36-39
Finance,
books on, list of, 471
power of, 365-370
rules of, by Wm. H. Lough, 411-412
Financial and Commercial Chronicle,

reports in, 263, 265
Financial preparedness, 371-372, 374
"Financing an Enterprise," by Fran-
cis Cooper, reference to, on in-
vestments 388
Financing of a business, 389-399

methods of, 389-397
Fisher, Irving, quoted on,
health-ideas, 296
"overwork" delusion, 358
Fitch, George, quoted on President
Roosevelt's method of handling
callers, 154-155
Fluctuations in value, opportunities

for business gain in, 198-199
Food for the efficient worker, 299-302

Forbes' Magazine, quoted on thirty

largest fortunes, 201
Ford, Henry,
quoted on qualities necessary to

success of executive, 10
standardization by, 177-178
Forecasting, made possible by statis-
tical knowledge, 267, 269-271

Form,

letters, 171-172

paragraphs, 167-172
standardized, 255-256
Fortunes,

colossal, based on thrift, 381

thirty largest, 201
Franklin, Benjamin,

plan of, for control of habits, 189-
191

quoted on thrift, 374
Frick, H. C, the "coke king," story

of, 371-372
Fundamental data, study of, 261-262

Ganglia, function of, 181
Gantt, Henry L., quoted on manage-
ment, 254
Gary, Elbert H.,
method of handling callers, 149-150
power and personal enterprise of, 4
quoted on business ideals, 455
Geddes, Sir Eric, dynamic power of,
355-356

General Electric Company, problem
solution in, illustrated, 226-227
General store, 418
German drive of March, 1918, 445
"Get-rich-quick" schemes, 387-388
Glass desk top, uses of, 53-54
Goal setting, 328-329
Good-will, winning of, 430-442, 455
Goodyear, Charles, inventor, discov-
eries by, 203, 215-216
Gould, Jay, operations by, 451
Graphic presentation, 272-200

H

Habits,
and specialization, 341-342
control of, by Benjamin Franklin.

189-191
formation of, 185-187

Habits (Continued)

influence upon creative work, 187-
188

standardized nerve action, 177-183
which kind? 184
Hanan, John H., quoted on value of

analysis, 222
Harriman, Edward H.,
business methods of, 451
studies made by, 221
unusual memory of, due to associa-
tion of details by, 95-96
Health,
builders, "patent," 358-359
"cults" and "isms," 297
culture rules for, summarized, 315-
317

test chart for, 315
Health and mind culture, list of

books on, 474
"Help Yourself" sales plan, 366-367
Herndon, W. H., quoted on analytic

mind of Lincoln, 220
Hill, James J.,
Great Northern Railway, 455-456
studies made by, 221
thrift, 374
Hobbes, the philosopher, mental hab-
its of, 213
Hold-over file, 50

Honesty, as a factor in co-operation,
438-439

Hotchkiss, Professor, short-cuts

used by, 164
"How to Live," cited for food tables,

299

How to Study, 16-18
Hubbard, Elbert, quoted on thrift, 374
Humor, value of, 354-355
Huntington, Collis P., quoted on

value of humor, 355
Hutchinson, Dr. Woods, quoted on

use of gymnasiums, 351, 359

Ideals, of business, new, 448-458
Ideas,

development of new, 206-211
testing of, 233-247
value of, in business, 205-206
Imagination,
a quality of empire builders, 208-
211

compared with analysis, 232

Importance, a test of ideas, 237
Impression, rules of, as factors in

memory, 90-92
Incentives supplied by executive, 426
Information on executive's problems,
sources of, 231-232
tested, 235-236
Ingersoll, William H,

daily program, form of, 114, 117,
127

on planning work, 128
Initiative,
power of, 202-205
stimulation of, 206-211
Insull, Samuel, quoted on reasons for

non-success in business, 10
Interruptions, enemies of dispatch,
143-145

Introspection versus objectivity, 342-

344
Inventions,
lessons from history of, 205-206
opportunities in developments of,
197-198

Investing, the art of, 382-388

Investments,
diversifying, and table for, 384-385
price fluctuations and speculation,
385-386

rating desirability of, 382, 385- 388
slow but sure, 386-387
sources of information as to, 383-
384

varieties of, 382

James, William, quoted on,
associations as factors in memory,
92-93

direction of attention to relevant

circumstances, 91
habit formation, 184
mental and physical fitness, 206
mental retentiveness, natural, 85-86
ready and vaguer memories, 100
will, power of, 325-326
Judgment,

necessary to selective thinking,

217-218
speeding up of, 274

K

Kahn, Otto, quoted on the success-
ful man as an "irritant," 456-
457

Kehoe, Sim D., 297
Kent, T. R., quoted on motion effi-
ciency in a fire house, 172-173

Large-scale enterprises,

advantages of, 422-423

development of, 418-422
Launching an enterprise, 397-399
Law,

advantages of having, 401-402
and business organization, 405
books on, 412-413
business, list of books on, 473
defects of, in U. S., 406-407
knowledge of, how to secure, 407-
408

of agency, 404-405

of contracts, 403-404

relation of, to business, 402-403
Lawyer,

and the business man, 409

fees of, 410-411
Leadership, qualities necessary for,

465-466
Learning by heart, 97
Legal problems, 400
"Letters from a Self-made Merchant
to his Son," quotation from,
on investments, 388
Lewis, E. St. Elmo,

figure used by, 164

on mind building, 32

on service of the new business-
man, 201
Life Extension Institute, 291-296
Lincoln,

ability of, in clear discernment, 235

analytic mind of, 220

incidents showing self-improve-
ment by, 468-469

use by, of test of reasonableness,
236

Litigation, how to avoid, 408-409
Loans, 391-394
Logan, James, quoted on,
co-operation, 437

necessity of watching small de-
tails, 22

Loisette, memory systems of, 86-87,
94

Loose ends, time wasters, 141
Loose-leaf memo system, 25-26
Lough, William H., quoted on rules
of finance, 411-412

M

McElwain, J., Franklin, quoted on
solving need for executives, 8
McGowan, Rear Admiral, quoted on
, the shipshape office, 45-46
Mail-order sales manager's daily

schedule, a, 118
Management,
list of books, 470
of large-scale business, superior,
423

Manufacturer's daily schedule, a, 116

Maps, use of, by executives, 277-279

Marketing,
list of books on, 471
plan for large-scale business, 423

Mary Elizabeth Evans candies, story
of, 365-367

Mastication of food, as a factor of
health and energy, 301-302

Medulla oblongata, chief of the rou-
tine department, 181

Mellen, Charles, studies made by, 221

Memorizing, conditions conducive to,
102

Memory,

association, rules of, as factors in,
92-96

culture, chart of, 101

dependent more on system than on
native retentiveness, 86

Edward H. Harriman, based on as-
sociation of details, 95-96

impression, rules of, as factors in,
90-92

mechanical aids to, 24-32
process of, four steps in, 90
recall, rules of, as factors in, 96-98
recognition, rules of, as factors in,
98-100

"Men Who Are Making America," by

Forbes, quotations from, on H.

C. Frick, 371-372
Mental science, pseudo, 358
Merchandising, development of large

scale, 418-421
Metchnikoff, Russian scientist, quoted

on intestinal bacteria, 307
Micawber, Mr., quoted on spending.

379

Mill, John Stuart, five rules of rea-
soning by, 244-247

Misused power, public revolt against,
452-453

Mitchell, Professor Wesley E., quoted
on cycles in business, 261, 266
Mix, Melville W., quoted on twenty-
five per cent efficient execu-
tives, 6
Mobilization, of business, 273
Morgan, J. Pierpont,
anecdote on handling of details, 22
character test of, 391-392
choice of partners by, 395
commercial agent for British gov-
ernment, 434
Mosso, Angelo, "Fatigue," chart

from, 339
Motion,

efficiency in a fire house, 172-173
study, applied to office arrange-
ment, 57-60
Muldoon, physical training by, 315
Murphy, Carroll D., day's work
schedule by, 115, 119

N

National Cash Register Co., origin
of, 202-203

Natural resources, opportunities for
exploration of, past and fu-
ture, 196-197

Nervous system, the human, correct
utilization of, 179-183

New York Stock Exchange, quota-
tions from, 383

Note-books, 25

Observation, value of intelligent, 202-

203, 211
Office equipment, 32-42
desk, the executive work shop,

44-45 . .

devices for communication, 55-56

efficient layout of, 56-60

filing systems, 47-50

results of good equipment and lay-
out, 51

One-man stage of business, passing

of, 417, 424
Open-mindedness, a factor in co-
operation, 440
Opportunities,
in business for profits, 196
of the executive in U. S. Indus-
tries, 7

Organization,
by executive, 426
essentials of, first, 436-437
factory, chart of, 425
good and poor, chart comparing.
67

point of view, 423-425
processes of, four, 426-427
Originality, development of, 206-211
Output, chart of, for Niccolai Print-
ing House, 337
Outsider's fresh viewpoint, value of,

205-206
"Overwork" delusion, 358

Partial payment plan, investing on,
376

Partnerships, 393-396
Patterson, John H.,
analysis by, of the position of man-
ager, 430
business methods of, 213-214
Peck, Vice-president, of Link Belt
Co., quoted on scientific man-
agement, 231
Persistence, factor in driving power,
321

Personality, in business, 4, 439-443
Peters, Ralph, quoted on solving

need for executive, 8
Physical energy, 293-319
examples of, in noted men, 294
need of, 294
sources of, 298, 317
Physical exercise, program of, for

developing vitality, 300-313
Physical spendthrifts, 297
Pioneer versus followers, 204
Plan for day's work, preparation of

a, 119-123, 126-131
Planning one's work,
importance of, 107-110
the day's work,
seven basic questions in, in
test charts for, 132, 133
Plans of the executive, 420
Playing the game, 446
Poisons, bodily, 305-309
Pope, Colonel, and first bicycles, 203
Posture as a factor in developing

vitality, 313-314
Practical ideas, chart for measuring,
229

Premises, correctness of, as factors

in reasoning, 238-239
Prices, regularization of, in large-
scale businesses, 423
Printed memo sheet, 26
Printer's Ink, 420-421
Private secretary,
conditions and equipment for, 73
daily duties of, 08
day's work plan for, 163
money value of services, 69-70
qualifications for, 71
questionnaire for securing best re-
sults from, 83
selecting a, 70
standardizing work of, 79-80
training of, after employment, 74-
81
Problem-solving type of mind, 220-

222
Procrastinator, the, 138-139
Production,
large-scale, 421-422
opportunities in improvements of,
198
Profit-making, chart for, 212
Profits,
dependent upon close control, 251
index to business conditions, 264
Prosperity, possible effects of, on

executive, 461-462
Protein, correct proportion of, in

diet, 299
"Public be damned" policy, 450-451
"Public be served" policy, 453

R

Railroad rate making, secret, 449-450

Reasonableness, as a test of ideas,
236-237

Reasoning, ability, superior, in prac-
tice, 228
tests of, 231-247

Recall, rules of, as factors in mem-
ory, 96-98

Recognition, rules of, as factors in
memory, 98-100

Record, chart showing general lay-
out of a unit, 255

Records, control through, 252-269

Recreation, as a factor in mental
economy, 345-346

Reflection, as a balance wheel in
creative thinking, 217-218

Regulation, of business methods,

452-453
Relaxation, as a factor in mental

economy, 349-352
Resolution, need of, in forming new

habits, 185-186
Revell, A. H., quoted on clothes,

442-443
Rhodes, Cecil, goal set by, 328
Richardson, J. R., quoted on func-
tion of the manager, 429-430
Ripley, President, of Sante Fe.
quoted on executive's chief
business, 66
Risks,
business, 219-220
systematic elimination of, 227
Ritty, Jacob, conception by, of cash

register, 202-203
Rockefeller, John D.,
as a borrower, 300-391
early savings of, 375
growth of, as an executive, 64
means of developing natural re-
sources, 196
quoted on,
business risks, 219-220
co-operation, 436
dangers of a little success, 461-

462
facing the truth, 225
mobilization of business, 273
Roosevelt, Theodore,
method of handling ca.Iers, 154-

155
orderly methods of work of, quo-
tation from American Maga-
zine, 109
Roosevelt Conservation Commission

on National Vitality, 296-297
Rosebery, Earl of, quoted on thrift.

380
Ross, Edward A., quoted on specta-

toritis, 311
Routine, and constructive thought,

195
Ruling passion, as factor in develop-
ing personal power, 324-326

S

Sage, Russell, quoted on his physical

vitality, 309
Salaries, proportioned to value of

services, 5

Sales manager's daily schedule, a,
116

Sales, campaign of Walter H. Cot-
tingham, 1914, 326-328

Salesman's "catechism," 329-330

Salesmen,
chart showing records of, 175
use of maps in controlling, 277-278

Sandow, muscle builder, 298, 314

Saving,

money, chart for self-grading on,
381

plans for, 375-380
Schedule,

chart of, 144

general office, 143

interdepartmental, chart of, 146
Schwab, Charles M.,

quoted on co-operation, 440-441

studies by, 221-222
Science, natural and social list of

books on, 474
Scientific,

management, 427-429
definition of, 231

method, list of books on, 473

mind, 223-225
Securities, for investment, 383-386,
387-388

Self-deception, danger of, 224-225
Self-discipline, 333

Self-reliance, importance and de-
velopment of, 330-333

Selling periods for securities, 386

Service,
ideals of, in business, 453-458
law of, 200-201

Seven devils of obstruction, the,
I3M38

Short-cuts, 160-176
samples, 256-257

Sickness, due to erroneous personal
habits, 295

Sleep, habits of, 347-350

Smith, Adam, quoted on faith in
self, 330-331

Social,

consciousness, development of, 456-
458

engineer, qualities of, 45.,
Sound, undertaking, 368-369
South Improvement Company, 440-
450

Speculation, undesirability of, for
man in another business, 385-
386

Spending, plans of, 373-380

Spirit of youth, 355-356

Standard Oil "Trust" in 1882, 64-65

Standardization,
importance and value of, 13-14, 43,
178-179

of graphic methods, rules for,
286-288

of work of private secretary, 70-80
Standardized record forms, 255-256
Statistical,
analysis, 258-259
control, 251-271
by means of curves shown in
figure 30, 284
data, chart for securing of, 253
methods, 254-259
Stead, William T., quoted on work

schedules, 128
Step-saving, 162-163
Stettinius, Edward R., quoted on
factors in war industries, 434-
436

Study, by the business man, 12-13,
460-476

Subordinates, must bear burden of

detail, 66, 69
Successful enterprise, requisites of,

368

Summarized reports, 257-258
Supervising from the office, 161
Supervision by the executive, 427
"Sure thing" delusion, the, 219
Surety of performance, a factor in

co-operation, 437-439
Symbols, as short-cuts, 164-165, 166
Syndicate, for financing a business,

398

Syracuse, candy business started at,

365-367
System, cited, 115

Systematic,
and accurate procedure, 233
arrangement of work, 112
planning for day's work, illustra-
tions of, 114-110. I23. '26
Systematizing the day's work, test
chart for, 189

T

Tact, a factor in co-operation, 441-
442

Tarbell, Ida M., quoted on methods
used by Rockefeller, 449-450

Taylor, Frederick W., and scientific
management, 427, 429

Team-work, 417-433

Teeth and mouth, sanitation of, 306-
307

Telautograph, use of, in business

office, 56

Telephone, its use and abuse, 55
Thorndike, Professor, experiment in

annual psychology by, 159
Thrift,

as a working policy, 371-381
value and practice of, 373-380
Tickler systems, illustrations and use
of, 26-32

Time, means for preventing waste
of, 156-157

Tobacco, use of, 305-306

Trained mind, the, 223-228

Training,

employees, 440-441
private secretary within the or-
ganization, 74-81

Trouble man's daily program, 123-
125

U

United States Steel Corporation,
earnings of, as index to busi-
ness conditions, 264

Up-to-date information, 257

V

Vacations, as factors in mental

economy, 346, 357-358
Vail, Theodore N.,
experiments of, in underground

wiring, 203
quoted for advancement of execu-
tive, 10
Vanderbilt, Commodore,
disregard of law, 451
opportunities seen by, 204
Vanderlip, Frank,
quoted on pressure of business, 391
two-minute interviews of, 122

[ocr errors]

Variables, a type of daily activities,

112-113
Ventilation, 302, 304
Volume of business, data on, 262-

263

w

Wanamaker, John, quoted on initia-
tive, 204-205

Wants, business opportunities in sup-
plying, 100-200

War,

directed by graphic presentation.

275-276
effect of,
on business ideals, 448
on business methods, 201-202
Waste,

American habits of, 373-374
business, 467-468

double, in misuse of nervous sys-
tem, 183
of below-par condition, 295-297
Waste-basket, as an ally, 141
Weed, Thurlow,
memory system of, criticized, 89
quoted on development of memory,
88

Weight, and underweight, factors in
personal health, 299

Wharton, P. T, quoted on solving
problem of need for execu-
tives, 8

Will-power, 330-336
bizarre schemes for developing,

322-323
culture of, chart for, 336
training summarized, 334-335

Willys, J. N., quoted on solving need
for executives, without an or-
ganization, 8

Wilson, Thomas E., quoted on causes
for executive advancement, 9

Winship, Dr., 297

Witness, competence, of the, 235-236
Woolworth, Frank, experience of, in

team-work, 417-418
World's Work, The, quoted on prob-
lem solution in practice, 226-
227

Worry, the policy of a spendthrift,
343-344

1919

11

[graphic][ocr errors][merged small][ocr errors][ocr errors][graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic][ocr errors]
