[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic][ocr errors]
[merged small][merged small][merged small][merged small][merged small][merged
small][graphic][merged small][ocr errors]
[merged small][ocr errors]

CONTENTS

Page.

Introduction 5

I. Prevalence and cost of sickness among wageworkers 6

II. Conditions causing sickness among wageworkers 7

Occupational disease hazards :8

Harmful substances: Metals, dusts, gases, vapors, and fumes 8

Harmful conditions in places of employment 9

Working conditions which cause excessive fatigue 10

Morbidity according to occupation 12

Mortality according to occupation 14

Irregularity of employment 16

Effects of irregular employment upon health 16

Unemployment as a factor in the public health problem 17

Unhealthful conditions of living 18

Inadequate diet 19

Extent of inadequate diet 19

Effects of increased prices of food; 20

Housing conditions 21

Congestion :21

Overcrowding and disease 22

Lodging-house conditions 23

Community environment 24

Effects of unfavorable community environment upon health 25

Infant mortality as an indicator of the healthfulness of en-

vironment 26

The employment of women 28

Effects of industrial occupation upon the health of women

wageworkers i 28

Causes of a greater health hazard to women wage earners. 33

Effects of employment of mothers upon viability and health

of children 1 33

Economic status of wage earners 34

Wages 35

Loss in working time 35

Annual earnings 35

Family income 35

Adequacy of wages and income 36

Poverty and disease 36

Partnership of poverty and disease 37

Poverty a result as well as a cause of disease-,. 37

III. Responsibility for conditions causing disease 38

Causes of sickness from the standpoint of responsibility for

their removal 38

Conditions for which employer and industry are primarily

responsible 39

Conditions for which public is primarily responsible 40

Limitations upon responsibilities of employer and public— 41

Conditions for which the individual worker is responsible._ 42

3

III. Responsibility for conditions causing disease—Continued. Page.

Inability of wageworker to meet his responsibility for main-

taining health 43

Adequacy of the wage earner's family income to maintain

health 43

Handicaps of medical profession 46

Need for more effective method of dealing with problem of wage

earner's health 47

IV. Cooperative action needed for relief and prevention of sickness 47

Cooperation among employers, employees, and public 48

Insurance a method of collective or cooperative action 48

Insurance as a preventive measure 49

Growth of social insurance 49

Growth of health insurance in Europe 50

Growth of health insurance in the United States 51

V. Health insurance: a health measure 53

Benefits 53

Extension of health insurance to all wage earners 54

Distribution of cost among employees, employers, and public 55

The employees' share-; 56

The employers' share 56

The public's share 57

Health insurance as a health measure 57

Financial incentive for lessening ill health 57

Correlation of all health agencies 58

Medical staff detailed from Federal or State health de-

partments 59

Cooperation with medical profession 59

Cooperation with local health agencies 60

Health insurance a health-promoting agency in foreign

countries 61

Malingering 62

Incorrect principles employed in sick-benefit plans 63

Health insurance in relation to relief and charity work 64

Health insurance not a charity measure 64

A preventive of the need for charity .. 64

"Ethical character of insurance" 65

Governmental system best 65

Basic principles of health insurance already established In the

United States 67

A health insurance system feasible for the United States 68

Summary and conclusions 68

Appendix I. British and German health insurance systems 71

Appendix II. Typical sick-benefit funds in the United States 74

Appendix III. Health insurance standards recommended by the com-

mittee on social insurance of the American Association

for Labor Legislation 76

Appendix IV. Recommendations as to health Insurance from the staff re-

port to the United States Commission on Industrial Re-

lations 78

HEALTH INSURANCE: ITS RELATION TO THE
PUBLIC HEALTH.

By B. S. Warren and Edgar Sydenstbicker.

INTRODUCTION".

The growing realization of the fact that the health of the wageworking
population depends in large measure upon economic conditions is leading to the
conviction that there is need for more comprehensive measures for the relief
and prevention of disease. The presence of a wage-working population in almost
every community renders this problem a national as well as a local one. As the
industrial population of the United States increases, the need for an adequate
solution of the problem becomes more pressing.

Health insurance has been adopted in many European countries as the remedy for
similar conditions and has become an efficient measure for the relief of
sickness and an important agency in the prevention of disease. Recent
discussions and proposals of healthinsurance measures are beginning to focus
public attention upon this subject and to suggest that a governmental system of
health insurance is the solution of the problem in America. Its success in
foreign countries at least demands a careful consideration of its possibilities
as a health measure in this country.

Health insurance, in its broad sense, has two definite objects: (1) To
distribute the cost of sickness among those responsible for conditions causing
sickness and thereby lighten the burden upon the individual; and (2) to give a
financial incentive for the prevention of sickness to those who are responsible
by dividing the premiums among the responsible groups. If such a method can be
adapted to American conditions, and if in its administration the cooperation of
all concerned in the relief and prevention of sickness can be brought about,
there is reason to believe that it will prove to be a publichealth measure of
extraordinary value.

This bulletin is intended as a brief survey of the relation of health insurance
to the health of the wage earner. Obviously, therefore, it is necessary (1) to
outline the conditions causing sickness among wage earners; (2) to point out
the responsibility of employers, employees, and the public for these
conditions; (3) to show the necessity

5

for closer cooperation among the responsible groups; and (4) to discuss the
adequacy of health insurance as a method for their cooperation in promoting the
health of wage earners and their families. In discussing these subjects it
should be noted that mortality and morbidity statistics have not been used to
measure the relative importance of economic factors, but to indicate their
trend and their effects.

As a basis for considering the relation of health insurance to the health of
the wage-working population, a review of the situation which needs to be
remedied is given first consideration.

I. PREVALENCE AND COST OF SICKNESS AMONG WAGEWORKERS.

The cost to the Nation of preventable diseases has frequently been the subject
of estimates and discussions. These estimates include the entire population,
and even if reduced by one-half are still appallingly great. As a basis,
however, for a clearer understanding of the problem of health among wageworkers
and their families, it is important to have some idea of its magnitude in more
specific terms.

It has been tentatively stated that each of the 30,000,000 workers in the
United States loses on the average about nine days every year on account of
sickness alone. This does not take into consideration the effects of sickness
upon his own vigor and efficiency, or upon the welfare of his family, or upon
the efficiency of the industry in which he is engaged. The estimate of nine
days is a preliminary one based upon an investigation made for the United
States Commission on Industrial Relations of nearly a million workers in
representative establishments and occupations in this country. While the more
complete statistics that are now being compiled may cause some revision of this
estimate, it is interesting to note that it very nearly coincides with the
German and English figures for over 26,000,000 industrial workers, which show
an average of eight to nine days of illness per year through a number of years.
Estimating the daily wage at $2 and the cost of medical attention at $1 per
day, the annual loss to the 30,000,000 wage earners on account of the nine days
of sickness would be over $800,000,000. This leaves out of consideration the
losses due to death and to decrease in efficiency which follows illness. It
also leaves out of consideration the effect upon the family when the
breadwinner is disabled.

These figures, impressive as they are, but inadequately afford a true
conception of the problem of sickness among wageworkers; they merely give an
idea of its magnitude in terms of economic significance. To be properly
appreciated, they must be interpreted in terms of human suffering. Several
intensive physical examinations of workers in recent years in the United States
have afforded definite data on the prevalence of ill health, and especially
tuberculosis, in certain occupations. Miller's examination of 200 printers in
1908 showed that 69 per cent were afflicted with one or more diseases and that
16.7 per cent had tuberculosis.1 Similar examinations by Dr. George M. Price,
Director of Investigation for the New York State Factory Investigating
Commission, showed the following results.2

[merged small][table]

The results of physical examinations of about 2,000 male garment workers in New
York City, conducted on a more intensive plan by Surg. J. W. Schereschewsky, of
the United States Public Health Service, showed that 2.4 per cent of the
operators, 3.4 per cent of the pressers, and 4.6 per cent of the finishers had
tuberculosis.3 The examination of over 7,000 employees of the Sears, Roebuck &
Co., in Chicago, by Dr. H. E. Mock, during a period of five years, showed a
tuberculosis rate of 4 per cent.4 Mock's method of examination was similar to
that of Schereschewsky. The examination of about 20,000 workers in various
industries in Cincinnati by Surg. D. E. Robinson, of the United States Public
Health Service, showed a tuberculosis rate of 1.1 per cent5.

II. CONDITIONS CAUSING SICKNESS AMONG WAGEWORKERS.

The problem of the wageworkers' health is made more complex on account of
economic factors. The "human scrap heap of industry" is not an imagined thing,
but represents a very real and constant loss of industrial efficiency and waste
of health and life that ought to be prevented.

1 These statistics were presented by Dr. James Alexander Miller at the
International Congress on Tuberculosis In 1908. Quoted by Dr. George M. Price,
M. D.: Occupational Diseases and the Physical Examination of Workers,
Transactions of the Fifteenth International Congress on Hygiene and Demography,
Washington, 1912, Vol. Ill, Part II, pp. 845, 847.

1 Supra dt., p. 847. The women tobacco workers were examined by Dr. Fanny
Dembo.

"Public Health Bulletin No. 71, United States Public Health Service, p. 84. The
workers included in Dr. Schereschewsky's examination were those who
volunteered.

* H. E. Mock, M. D.: An Efficient System of Medical Examination of Employees.
Transactions of the Tenth Annual Meeting of the National Association for the
Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis, Washington, D. C, 1914, p. 44.

5 Public Health Bulletin No. 73, United States Public Health Service, p. 58.

Among the more important economic factors which affect the health of the
wageworking population may be mentioned the following:

1. The occupational hazards of disease.

2. Irregularity of employment.

3. Unhealthful conditions of living.

4. The employment of women in industry under modern conditions of work,
particularly of married women.

5. The economic disadvantage at which a large proportion of wageworkers and
their families are placed as the result of low wages and insufficient annual
income.

OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE HAZARDS.

There is no longer any doubt that modern industry is responsible for a
considerable proportion of workingmen's physical ills. How far other
conditions, such as character of diet and home and community environment, are
predisposing or aggravating factors in "occupational" diseases is impossible of
exact determination. There are, however, certain specific substances and
conditions in places of employment and certain conditions of employment which
undoubtedly have harmful effects upon the health of many workers. These facts
are becoming widely recognized in the enactment of legislation intended to
decrease these health hazards.

A large number of diseases have been traced more or less directly to the
occupation. The tendency, however, in recent years has been to define these
diseases as "industrial" rather than as "occupational." For, as defined in a
memorial to the President of the United States by a committee of experts in
1910, industrial diseases are the "morbid results of occupational activity
traceable to specific causes and labor conditions, and followed by more or less
extended incapacity for work."1 It is not practicable to give here a list of
the industrial diseases or to enumerate the harmful substances or conditions
which cause them; but the following brief outline of a classification according
to special causes suggests some idea of their extent and prevalence:

A. Workers in harmful substances: Metals, dusts, gases, vapors, and fumes.

B. Workers under harmful conditions: Heat, moisture, cold, confined air (all
bad ventilation), overcrowding, compressed air, excessive light, strains of
muscles, nerves, or special senses, and the like.

Harmful substances: Metals, dusts, gases, vapors, and fumes.—The character and
to some degree the extent of the disease hazard caused by poisons, gases,
fumes, dusts, etc., in certain occupations have been shown in several important
investigations made in recent years by the Federal and State Governments and in
recent contributions to the literature on occupational diseases and hazards.1
Phosphorus, lead, mercury, and arsenic poisonings are but familiar examples;
there are so many diseases that have been found to result from poisons which
affect workers in scores of occupations that "there is scarcely any one line of
modern manufacture which is free from the dangers of industrial poisoning."2
These conditions are now so generally accepted as serious occupational hazards
that it is not necessary to do more than refer to them here.

'American Labor Legislation Review, Vol. I, No. 1, p. 125.

Harmful conditions in places of employment.—In spite of the movement for better
conditions in factories, stores, and mills it appears from recent reports that
a very large proportion of the industrial establishments in this country are
not free from unhygienic conditions. The report of the New York Factory
Investigating Commission of its extensive examination of establishments in the
State of New York pointed out that while in many of the establishments the
conditions were found to be excellent and the managements exercised a proper
care over the health of their employees, " unfortunately such model
establishments and such enlightened employers are in the minority," and
"investigations in a great number of factories throughout the State have
revealed much that is deplorable."8 The sanitary survey of the State of
Louisiana, so far as its results have been published, indicated that over 50
per cent of all of the establishments in the State were in " poor " or " bad
"condition.1 The recent survey of industrial health hazards in establishments
in Ohio found that exposure to certain hazards classified as "bad," from the
standpoint of sanitation and hygiene, existed in a very considerable proportion
of establishments.2 Sanitary surveys made for the Federal Commission on
Industrial Relations by the United States Public Health Service in 10 typical
industries in seven different States showed that conditions were about the same
as those reported for New York, Louisiana, and Ohio.3 These conditions are
probably typical for most industrial localities in the United States and would
seem to indicate that much remains to be done before the industrial disease
hazards due to these conditions are reduced to a minimum.

1 Space does not permit a discussion of the results of these Investigations In
this brief survey, but reference Is especially made to the following literature
on the subject of occupational diseases which treat of specific occupations and
occupational hazards: Henry Japp: Caisson Disease and Its Prevention,
Transactions of the Fifteenth International Congress on Hygiene and Demography,
Vol. Ill, Part II, p. 639; John B. Andrews: Phosphorus Poisoning In the Match
Industry of the United States, tl. S. Bureau of Labor Bulletin No. 8G; Mrs. L.
W. Bates: Mercury Poisoning in the Industries of New York City; C. T.
Graham-Rogers: Ninth Annual Report of the New York Commissioner of Labor,
Appendix II, pp. 68-91 (calico print industry and potteries), and Tenth Annual
Report of the New York Commissioner of Labor, Appendix II, pp. 63-111
(phosphorus match industry); Emery R. Hayhurst: Report of Illinois Commission
on Occupational Diseases, 1911, pp. 49-84 (Investigation of brass manufacturing
industry In Chicago); Alice Hamilton: White Lead Industry in the United States,
U. S. Bureau of Labor Bulletin No. 95, pp. 189-259; Report on Investigations of
the Lead Troubles In Illinois from the Hygienic Standpoint, In report of the
Illinois Commission on Occupational Diseases, 1911, pp. 21-49; Lead Poisoning
in the Smelting and Refining of Lead, U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Bulletin
No. 141.

11. M. Rublnow: Social Insurance, p. 212. See also Bulletins of the United
States Bureau of Labor Statistics, Nos. 86 and 100, for groups of industrial
poisons.

"New York Factory Investigating Commission; Second Report, 1913, Vol. II,
Report of Dr. George M. Price, Director of Investigation, p. 416. Dr. Price
said:

"Unfortunately, such model establishments and such enlightened employers are In
the minority, as by far the greater numl)er of employers have not yet awakened
to the importance of improving conditions of labor. Investigations In a great
number of factories throughout the State have revealed much that is deplorable.
In the production of commodities, great economy must needs be practiced as .a
matter of course. But there is a tendency on the part of many employers to
economize not only In matters of legitimate expense, but also In space, light,
air, and certain other safeguards to the health and lives of the workers. Such
false economy inevitably Injures the employer and Imperils the health and lives
of his employees."

Working conditions which cause excessive fatigue.—In addition to industrial
poisons and other insanitary conditions in places of work, there are certain
conditions in modern industry which cause excessive fatigue. Among these may be
mentioned long hours, the piecework system, and the increasing use of machine
methods. Work performed by any of the body cells produces waste products and
other changes in those cells. Up to a certain limit work, with the resulting
cell changes, is beneficial and improves the physical condition; but when work
is excessive, too prolonged, or too fast, the waste products begin to
accumulate, the cells become exhausted, the physiologic changes fail to occur,
and if not properly rested the cells are damaged.

It is becoming more and more clearly recognized that fatigue is a health hazard
in industry. This is evidenced by a series of court decisions in the last few
years upholding the constitutionality of laws prohibiting excessive hours of
work for women in industry. The

[table]

> Louisiana State Board of Health: Quarterly Bulletin, Mar. 1,1914.

• E. E. Hayhurst, M. D.: A Survey of Industrial Health Hazards and Occupational
Diseases in Ohio, Ohio State Board of Health, 1915, p. 118. The following
recapitulation of various health hazards shows the percentage of work places
where the exposure was classified as "bad":

Included in "infections," in the above recapitulation, are particularly the
dangers from promiscuous spitting upon floors in work places by persons who are
employed without physical examination and who work without medical supervision
(p. 119).

3 The 10 industries surveyed were in the following States: Massachusetts, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, and Minnesota.

basis of these decisions was the effects of long hours upon health.1 There is
also a marked tendency on the part of employers to realize these effects2 and
to adopt a shorter working day and on the part of labor unions to insist upon
an eight-hour day and a six-day-week standard. In spite of this tendency a very
large proportion of wageworkers are working 60 or more hours per week and many
without a "one day rest in seven." According to the Federal Bureau of Labor
Statistics' latest data the 84-hour and 7-day week were prevalent in some
departments of the iron and steel industry. Nearly two-thirds of the
blast-furnace workers, for example, in the plants for which data were secured
were in 1913 on an 84-hours-per-week basis, and the customary working time for
over three-fourths of the workers in this department was seven days a week.8 In
coal mining, according to the reports of the U. S. Geological Survey for 1914,
nearly 40 per cent of the bituminous workers were subject to a nine or ten hour
day.4 In the Michigan copper mines it was found by a Federal investigation that
the 10-hour day prevailed.8 According to the 1910 census three-fourths of the
workers in slaughtering plants, nearly one-half of cotton-mill, hosiery and
knit goods, and leather workers had a working day of 10 hours or longer.6

[table]

i The statement of Justice tngraham of the Court of Appeals of New York in the
case of The People v. The Charles Schweinler Press explained in some detail the
reason why the court reversed a former decision on a similar case. This reason
was stated to be the fact that in the former decision no definite facts as to
the effects of night work upon the health of women were presented, whereas in
the latter case the court had before it the results of various investigations
and opinions of medical and other experts. See also Supreme Court of the United
States, October term, 1907, Curt Miller v. State of Oregon; Kitchie & Company
v. Wayman, 244 Illinois, 509 (1910). For a review of judicial decisions dealing
with hours of labor for adult men see Bulletin of the New York State Department
of Labor, No. 46, March, 1911.

* An opinion as to these effects is seen in the report of the committee of
stockholders of the United States Steel Corporation, consisting of five
prominent stockholders, submitted in April, 1912, which stated "Whether viewed
from the physical, social, or moral point of view, we believe that the
seven-day week is detrimental to those engaged in it. * * * We are of the
opinion that a 12-hour day of labor followed continuously by any group of men
for any considerablenumber of years means a decreasing of the efficiency and
lessening of the vigor and virility of such men." Quoted from original report
by the United States Department of Commerce and Labor in Report on Conditions
of Employment in the Iron and Steel Industry, Vol. in, p. 161. (S. Doc. No.
110,62d Cong., 1st sess.)

'The Bureau of Labor Statistics data for workers in the nine principal
departments in the iron and steel industry are summarized in the following
table:

[United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics: Bulletin No.
168, pp. 10-13.]

* United States Geological Survey: Coal Production in the United States, 1914,
p. 617.

'United States Commissioner of Labor Statistics: Report on the Michigan Copper
Mines Strike. (S. Doc. No. 381,63d Cong., 2d sess.)

«Thirteenth Census of the United States, Vol. X. See bulletins of the
Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, on wages and hours in various
industries.

The overstrain incident to the piecework system has been found by a number of
investigations to be deleterious to the workers' health. Dr. A. J. Lanza, who
made physical examinations of shovelers in the zinc mines of the Joplin
district, Missouri, states:

They had shoveled from two to six years; some had started when 18 or 19 years
of age. Now they could shovel only 35 or 40 cans, where formerly they could
shovel 60 to 70 and upward. Hard, constant work had broken these men down, so
that at the ages of 22 to 30 they were already on the down grade * * *. Working
thus at their full earning capacity day in and day out, it is not surprising
that with the added exposure to rock dust these men should contract
tuberculosis to an excessive degree. Especially must this be true when they
start in while under age and before their bodies have fully developed.1

The physical examinations of garment workers in New York City conducted by the
United States Public Health Service showed that overstrain was more prevalent
in occupations where wages are paid on a piece basis than in occupations where
wages are paid on a week or other time basis.2

With the increased use of machinery another serious health hazard has appeared.
This is the so-called "new strain" in modern industrial methods. In the opinion
of many observers and authorities,3 it is the fatiguing effects upon the worker
of mechanical processes and of the increasingly mechanical character of this
work. The effects of the greater speed made possible by machine methods are
frequently aggravated by the speeding-up practices in many establishments. The
extreme specialization in the modern factory has resulted in a monotony of
attention and muscular action that imposes a condition of permanent strain upon
one set of nerve centers or muscles. Noise and mechanical rhythm have been
found to produce injurious effects upon the nervous system and special senses.

These occupational hazards are causing disease; just how much investigators
have been unable to determine, but sufficient research has been made to know
that they are prominent factors. The extent of their influence is indicated by
the morbidity and mortality rates among workers according to occupation.

Morbidity according to occupation.—All records of morbidity according to
occupation indicate that the health hazard is greater in some occupations than
in others. Occupation is recognized as one of the three variables by life
insurance companies in the United States in fixing their rates for health
insurance; the other variables are age and sex. The health insurance issued by
the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., for example, has rates which vary so
greatly according to occupation that the rates for certain occupations regarded
as hazardous to health are double those for the least hazardous occupations.
The records of European sickness insurance societies and systems afford
abundant evidence of the occupational differences in health hazard. The
well-known Leipzig statistics showed that the number of days of sickness per
person per annum varied from 4 for clerks and salesmen in shops to 15.7 for
cardboard and paper-box factory workers.1

1 U. S. Bureau of Mines, Technical Paper 105: Pulmonary Disease Among Miners In
the Joplin District, Missouri, and its Relation to Rock Dust In the Mines. A
Preliminary Report, by A. J. Lanza and Edwin Higglns, 1915, pp. 38-39.

2TJ. S. Public Health Service, Public Health Bulletin No. 71, May, 1915:
Studies In Vocational Diseases—I. The Health of Garment Workers, by J. W.
Schereschewsky, Surgeon U. S. Public Health Service, p. 79.

3 Goldmark: Fatigue and Efficiency, Part I, pp. 43-89, and Part IT, pp. 26-52.
In this volume are collected much of the principal authoritative data from
European, British, and American publications bearing on this point.

The extensive collection of statistics by the Austrian Government for members
of sick-benefit societies covering a period of five years showed high morbidity
rates among textile, clothing, sugar, and chemical factory workers and printers
and metal workers as compared with commercial employees.2

[table]

i These statistics were presented by Mr. Lee K. Frankel, sixth vice president
of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. of New York, in an address before the
Detroit conference, Sept. 4,1913, on "Occupational Hygiene." From them the
following table is compiled, showing the sickness experience of the Leipzig
Society from 1887 to 1904 for males in a number of important occupations.

• The following tabulation, compiled from the Austrian statistics referred to
above, shows the days of sickness per person per annum for male workers in
certain groups of occupations and of industries. The average number of days of
sickness for each occupational or industrial group for all ages is given, as
well as the average age of persons included, and the average number of days of
sickness according to specified age periods.

Days of sickness per person per annum in Austrian sickness insurance funds,
1891-1895, by specified age groups according to occupation or industry: Males.

[graphic][table]

Amtliche Nachrichten betr. Unfall- und Krankenversicherung, 1900.

Twenty-fourth Annual Report of the United States Commissioner of Labor:
Workmen's Insurance and Compensation Systems in Europe, Vol. I, pp. 380-393.

Official records for 1914 of the time lost on account of sickness by over
12,000 male office employees of the Federal Government in Washington show an
average of 4.82 days. This rate is in sharp contrast to an average of 11.6 days
lost during 1913 on account of sickness by employees of a large railroad system
in the United States, whose occupations were very different from that of the
Government employees. Sickness statistics for 5,600 employees of a large steel
company in Ohio illustrate the differences in health hazard, according to
occupation, in a single establishment. The average of all of its employees sick
during a period of 38 months was 8.2 per cent, as compared with 2.37 per cent
of the electrical workers and 13.4 per cent of the blast-furnace workers.1

Mortality according to occupation.—Occupational health hazards are indicated
not only by statistics of morbidity but also by statistics of mortality. The
German and Austrian records already referred to furnish ample evidence of
greater mortality in certain occupations than in others. Bertillon, in a
careful synthesis of English, French, Swiss, Scotch, Vienna, and Leipzig
statistics, found that the occupations in which the death rate was highest were
those in which the workman was exposed to a poison, either alcohol or lead;
that several occupations with a high death rate were characterized by exposure
to hard dust, mineral or animal; and that occupations in which the worker was
exposed to inclement weather while unable to exercise had a high mortality.2

For the purpose of comparing occupational health hazards the tuberculosis death
rate is often used. It is probably the best single indicator we have for this
purpose. The census mortality statistics for 1909 showed that for all
occupations reported, tuberculosis caused 14.8 per cent of all deaths among
males, as compared with 6.6 per cent of all deaths among farmers, planters, and
overseers, 28.6 per

i E. R. Hayhurst, M. D.: A Survey of Industrial Health Hazards and Occupational
Diseases in Ohio, Ohio State Board of Health, 1915, p. 58.

The statistics for some of the principal occupations in this steel plant are
summarized in the following tabulation. It should be noted that accidents and
venereal diseases were excluded from the statistics of sickness, as well as all
cases where the illness was less than a week in duration. Sanitary conditions
in this plant were pronounced to be exceptionally good.

Average per cent of employees of a steel mill sick during a period of three
years, 1911-1913, by occupations: Males.

Departments.

Electrical...
Bricklayers.
Open hearth
Yard labor..

Average

per cent

sick.

2.37
3.66
-i. SI
6.13

Departments.

Pipe mill

Shelf mills

Mechanical

Blast furnaces

Average

per cent

sick.

9.18 9.56 10.09 13.41

• Dr. Jacques Bertillon: Mortality and the Causes of Death According to
Occupations. Transactions ol the Fifteenth International Congress on Hygiene
and Demography, Washington, D. C, 1912. Vol. I, Part U, p. 369.

cent among marble and stone cutters, and 29.2 per cent among
printers, lithographers, and pressmen.1

These statistics do not vary greatly from the actuarial experience
of the Prudential Life Insurance Co.2 A recent industrial survey of
industrial health hazards in Ohio showed that while only 13 per cent
of the deaths of all industrial workers for the years 1910-1912 were
due to tuberculosis, 32 per cent of the deaths of brass workers, 18 per
cent of molders, 24 per cent of brewery workers, 27*per cent of marble
and stone cutters, 25 per cent of boot and shoe workers, and 21 per
cent of glass workers were due to this disease.3

At the Butte, Mont., hearings of the Federal Commission on Indus-,
trial Relations statistics were presented showing that 38 per cent of
all deaths of copper miners in that locality were caused by tubercu-
losis. This extremely high rate was stated to be due largely to cer-

[graphic]
[table]

1 The following table eompiled (rom the U. S. Census, Mortality Statistics,
1909, indicates the propor-
tionate mortality from tuberculosis for several important occupations. It
should be noted that the pro-
portionate mortality from accidents in the occupations named is in every
instance except two (iron and
steel workers and agricultural workers) below the average for all occupations.

Death rate from tuberculosis per 100 deaths from all causes among males in
specified occupations, for all ages

and for specified age groups.

Occupation.

All occupations

Farmers, planters, and overseers

Carpenters and joiners

Agricultural laborers

Iron and steel workers

Painters, glaziers, vafnishers

Cotton mill operatives

Tobacco and cigar factory operatives..

Clerks and copyists

Marble and stone cutters

Printers, lithographers, and pressmen.

All ages. 20-24

14.8

(i. 6
10.1

14. S
16.3

15. 9
21.1
24.3
28.3
2K.«
29.2

31.7
26.5
31.2
29.2
21.6
41.0
48.8
57.1
44.7
19.0
47.6

31.0
24.9
26.0

28.6
25.2
37.2
37.8
49.3
44.2
46.7
51.5

35-44

23.0
18.8
22.5
20.0
22.0
28.4
27.1
33.7
31. 5
41.0
32.6

! Frederick L. Huffman: Industrial Accidents and Trade Diseases in the United
States. Transactions
of the Fifteenth International Congress on Hygione and Demography, Washington,
D. C, 1912, Vol. I,
Part II, p. 802. Mr. Hoffman presented statistics from the mortality experience
of the Prudential Co.,
from which the following tabulation is compiled:

Proportionate mortality from tuberculosis of the lungs, 1907-19W, of occupied
males in certain occupations, by

specified age periods.

3 Hayhurst, E. R., supra cit., pp. 61,-66, 79, 80, 84, and i

tain definite working conditions in the copper mines, such as dust, heat,
humidity, gases, and continuous (seven days a week) work, which lowered the
resistance of the miners to the disease. According to an investigation
conducted by the United States Bureau of Mines, similar conditions were found
to prevail in the zinc-lead mines of the Joplin (Mo.) district.1

IRREGULARITY OF EMPLOYMENT.

Irregular employment in its relation to industry has been the subject of many
investigations. Though these investigations have been made with other purposes
in mind, they have shown that irregular employment has a very definite relation
to the health of the workers both as a cause and effect of sickness.

Effects of irregular employment upon health.—The actual effects of irregular
employment upon the health of workers, as observed by physicians and students
of industrial conditions, are so familiar that they need not be discussed here
at any length. The very fact that the income of a worker is uncertain has been
found to be a cause of impaired physical efficiency. The detailed examination
of male garment workers in New York City by Schereschewsky afforded the basis
for the following conclusion :2

During the busy season the workers drive themselves at top speed in order to
earn as much money as possible, to tide them over the slack seasons, while,
during the dull periods, they are without sufficient occupation to keep up
their interest. Such conditions are productive of considerable, mental stress,
the worker during the busy season overdriving himself and spending the slack
season in wondering if work will be forthcoming in the future. This condition
of affairs is reflected in the relatively large number of operators found to be
distinctly neurasthenic or of neurasthenic tendency.

Similar conclusions were indicated by Schwab's investigation of garment workers
in St. Louis.3

The effects of irregular employment are not limited to the physical impairment
caused by worry and periodic overdriving. The lessened opportunity to earn
wages caused by irregular employment or by physical disability means a smaller
income and therefore a lessened ability to maintain a healthful standard of
living. The earnings of workers whose rates of pay would be adequate to provide
for healthful conditions of living if they could work steadily are often so
reduced by irregular employment that a condition of poverty is the result. In
many instances the unemployed worker is forced into a lower level of
occupation. The unemployed worker is likely to take any job that he can get in
order to provide the bare necessities of life, and the tendency is for him to
drift into the " floating" or " casual" labor class. The casual laborers at the
docks in New York City are composed largely of workers who have gradually lost
their economic status in industry, and the dock worker continues to slip down
in the industrial scale until he reaches the class of " shenangoes," the
downand-out longshoremen who are capable of only light work and who finally
become burdens upon public and private charity. According to testimony before
the United States Commission on Industrial Eelations, most of the 7,000
applicants for work at the San Francisco Cooperative Employment Bureau were of
the casual labor class, and one-half of the total number of applicants were
found to be incapacitated for work on account of poor nutrition, disease, and
exposure.1 The records of many investigators of the unemployed abound with
similar instances.

1 United States Bureau of Mines: Technical Paper No. 105, supra cit, p. 42.

* .1. W. Schereschewsky: Some Physical Characteristics of Male Garment Workers
of the Cloak and Suit Trades, Based Upon 2,107 Physical Examinations Made in
New York, N. Y. American Journal of Public Health, July, 1915.

3 Sidney I. Schwab: Neurasthenia Among Garment Workers. American Labor
Legislation Review (January, 1911), p. 27.

Where the wageworker is the breadwinner of a family, the loss of his earnings
occasioned by irregular employment or by his drop into a poorer paid occupation
can not but have serious effects upon the health of the family. Either the
family is forced into that class whose income is insufficient to maintain a
healthful standard of living or the wife is compelled to become a wage earner
in order to supplement the family income. Either of these conditions has
serious consequences from the standpoint of health.

Unemployment as a factor in the public health problem.—There can be no doubt,
therefore, that irregularity of employment as a condition which affects the
wageworker's efficiency and the standard of living of his family is
fundamentally related to the relief and prevention of disease among the
industrial population. In the light of these considerations, irregularity of
employment takes on a new significance for public health agencies. The very
fact that many wageworkers grow old, in the physiological sense of the term,
earlier than persons engaged in other pursuits and the fact that modern
industry has little use for the man over 45 years of age are considerations
that involve the question of health in the problem of unemployment. When it is
remembered that much unemployment is due to sickness, then irregularity of
employment becomes a health problem that is serious in itself.

This phase of the public health problem not only concerns the State or the
Nation as a whole, but it confronts every industrial community. The familiar
statements and statistics of unemployment which almost annually appear from
industrial centers and large urban localities are capable of an interpretation
which is very significant from the standpoint of prevention of sickness. From
the comments of municipal health agencies, the following is selected as one
which exhibits clearly a realization of the connection, in a single community,
between the public health situation and the economic factor of unemployment:*

1 Testimony of H. R. Bogart, secretary of the Associated Charities of San
Francisco, before the United States Commission on Industrial Eelations, public
hearings on the seasonal labor problem In California.

44412°—16 2

There is evidence in many directions that the tremendous amount of unemployment
at present (January, 1915) existing is steadily undermining the health of the
people. This lack of employment with its consequent poverty and destitution,
brings about lowered vitality in its victims, weakens their resisting power,
and lessens their immunity to disease.

It should be remembered that in addition to the irregularity of work occasioned
by the practices and methods of industry, there are annually recurring seasons
of unemployment, as well as even more intense periods of unemployment in times
of industrial depression. The factor of irregularity of employment is thus one
which not only is present to some extent all of the time, but which varies in
its importance from season to season and from year to year.

UNHEALTHFUL CONDITIONS OF LIVING.

It is well recognized that the unfavorable conditions under which a large
proportion of wageworkers and their families live constitute a baffling problem
in the treatment of the sick and in the prevention of disease. Yet the larger
aspect of this phase of the question does not appear until the great extent of
these unfavorable conditions is realized.

The great size of New York City and its proportionately great number of ill-fed
and poorly housed working people have naturally concentrated attention on the
problem there more than in other centers; but it has been found that living
conditions of wage earners and their families are as bad in smaller industrial
centers and in some instances appreciably worse. Progress in municipal health
work has been greater in the large urban centers than in the smaller towns. The
latter are just beginning to realize that they have a health problem.
Furthermore, it should be remembered that the great majority of American wage
earners live in the middle-sized and smaller places.

Under existing conditions the reason for unhealthful modes of living is largely
an economic one. Since these conditions have been found to be intimately
connected with the incidence of disease, they constitute a factor in the
problem of the wageworker's health whose significance is plainly evident. It is
worth while to review some of the more significant facts, in order to
illustrate this phase of the subject.

1. Inadequate diet.

2. Housing conditions.

3. Community environment.

1 Toronto Health Bulletin for January, 1915.

Inadequate diet.—The frequent lack of a properly balanced and adequate diet
among wageworkers" and their families is a factor entering into the problem of
their health which has probably been noted by nearly every physician and health
and charity worker. The recent findings of Goldberger show clearly that an
unbalanced diet causes pellagra, a disease which is found more frequently among
lowpaid workers than among the well to do. Furthermore, while diet is not a
specific factor in the causation of tuberculosis, as in pellagra, the
undernourished prove easy victims to the tubercle bacillus. A committee of the
American Association for Labor Legislation has stated:1

With insufficient wages, food is cut down below the level of subsistence. In
order to meet expenses for lodging and clothing, working women reduce their
diet to the lowest possible point. Health inevitably suffers.

Nearly every investigation by minimum wage commissions has shown that a very
large proportion of the independent women workers in all sections of the
country are unable to provide enough food and the right kind of food on the
wages they receive, and proper subsistence has been thoroughly established as
one of the fundamental considerations in the fixing of minimum wages in a
number of States.

Extent of inadequate diet.—Income statistics published by the Federal and State
Governments in the last few years indicate that a considerable proportion of
the families of wageworkers have not been able to maintain a diet that will
provide for proper nourishment. A larger proportion can maintain an adequate
diet only at the sacrifice of healthful environment and of other items which go
to constitute a reasonable standard of living. There can be no doubt that
nourishing food is sacrificed in a large number of instances in order to obtain
some of the comforts and amusements and to gratify some of the wants which are
entirely natural and to be expected of the average American.

An examination of a number of studies of the budgets of American workingmen's
families indicates that the point of adequate subsistence is not reached until
the family income is about $800 a year.2 Less than half of the wage earners'
families in the United States have an annual income of that size, according to
all statistics of income for workingmen's families.1 If this be true, over half
of the families of American wage earners must either lower their standard of
life in other respects in order to have an adequate diet, or make sacrifices in
their diet in order to secure healthful housing, favorable community
environment, and a few of the reasonable comforts. Professor Chapin's study of
the budgets and standard of living of several hundred typical workingmen's
families in New York City in 1908 affords an illustration of this condition. An
analysis made by Professor Underhill of the nutrition values of the food of
these families showed that the proportion of underfed families were as
follows:2

'Constitutional amendments relating to labor legislation and brief in their
defense, submitted to the constitutional convention of New York State by a
committee organized by the American Association for Labor Legislation, 1915.

aThe following budgetary studies have been used as sources of data upon which
this statement is based: Eighteenth Annual Report of the United States
Commissioner of Labor, 1903. More: Wage-Earners' Budgets, 1907-1908. Chapin:
The Standard of Living in New York City, 1908-1909. Byington: Homestead—A Mill
Town, 1909. New York State Conference of Charities and Correction (Rochester
budgets published in Chapin, sup. cit.). United States Bureau of Labor: Report
on Condition of Woman and Child Wage-Earners, Vol. 19 (budgets of cotton-mill
families). British Board of Trade: Inquiry into the Cost of Living in American
Towns, 1909. J. C. Kennedy and others: Wages and Family Budgets in the Chicago
Stockyards District, 1913-1914. United States Immigration Commission: Reports,
Vol. 9 (Birmingham, Ala., budgets) and other descriptive material relating to
diet of wage-earners, 1908-1909. Fourth Annual Report of the New York State
Factory Investigating Commission, 1915; and various descriptive material.

Table 2.—Family incomes and percentages of underfed families in each income

group.

[table]

"This means," comments Prof. Chapin, "that with less than $600 to spend for all
purposes, an adequate food supply is not provided, and that on from $600 to
$800 incomes 1 family in 3 is underfed, while less than 1 in 10 of the families
having $900 and $1,000 to spend fell short of the minimum for food."3

Effects of increased prices of food.—The effect of the rapid increase in the
retail prices of the foods that have been found to constitute the diet of
workingmen's families can not be overlooked as an additional factor in this
connection. Between 1900 and 1913 the average increase in the retail prices of
foods was about 60 per cent,4 according to statistics published by the United
States Department of Labor. During the same period wage rates increased less
than 30 per cent, according to the same authority. Thus for families whose
incomes were on the border line or below the level of bare subsistence the
pressure of higher food prices must have made itself seriously felt.

The various budgetary data already referred to indicate some of these effects.
It seems to be a warrantable conclusion to state that

* See p. 35.

2 E. C. Chapin: Standard of Living in New York City, p. 127. These analyses
were made by Dr. F. B. Underhill, professor of physiological chemistry in Yale
University, upon the scale of values adopted by the Federal Department of
Agriculture.

"Ibid., p. 128.

4 United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics: Bulletins on
Retail prices of foods and on Wages and hours of labor.

families with annual incomes below $800 or $900 now actually spend a relatively
greater proportion for food than they did 15 years ago. It is evident,
therefore, that sacrifices in other items of expenditure have been made. In
view of this great increase in food prices it is impossible to assume that even
with these sacrifices families without an equivalent increase in income have
been able to maintain their former diet. Some changes in the kinds of food have
been inevitable. The character of these changes is suggested by reports of
investigations which show that the smaller the family income the. less is the
relative importance of meat and other animal protein food in the diet. This is
further evidenced by statistics of food prices, which show that the increase in
prices of meats and other animal protein foods has been over 50 per cent
greater than in the case of fats or starch foods since 1900.

In the light of these facts it is clearly evident that the tendency during the
period 1900-1913 has been toward an impoverishment of the diet of families with
low incomes.

Housing conditions.—Unfavorable conditions prevailing in the households of wage
earners constitute another important phase of the problem in the environment of
the wage-working population. The absence of sufficient light; the lack of
ventilation facilities or, when adequate facilities exist, the continuously
closed rooms to secure warmth because of the inability to provide sufficient
fuel; the accumulation of filth; the prevalence of insanitary toilets; the
necessity for overcrowding in order to reduce the rent to a figure which will
permit the household to make ends meet—these are fairly familiar facts.

It seems to be the general experience that these conditions tend to be present
where overcrowding exists, and the extent to which they prevail is perhaps best
indicated by statistics of congestion among workingmen and their families. It
is apparent that in a household of six or more people living in less than four
rooms the conditions described by the term " bad housing" are likely to be
found.

Congestion.—Recent investigations of the living conditions of wageworkers in
the United States have shown that the predominant type of dwelling occupied by
families of wage earners in the industrial localities investigated is the
single-family house.1 In the larger population centers the large tenement was
perhaps more often found to be predominant and was a familiar type in the
purely industrial localities. The predominant size of apartment or house was
about four rooms, although a considerable proportion of workingmen's families
lived in single rooms or in two or three room houses and

"This statement is based upon the results of the British Board of Trade's
Inquiry Into the cost of living in American towns and of numerous other housing
surveys and Investigations. The British study included data for 90,000 working
class dwellings in 27 American cities and towns.

apartments; this was especially the case in the large cities and in small
mining camps and villages.1

If a family of five persons—husband, wife, and three children— be considered
normal, it must appear that even the predominant size of house or apartment is
none too large. In a large proportion of wage earners' households, however, it
is necessary to obtain additional income from keeping lodgers, and the number
of persons per household and per room is thus greatly increased, This is
especially true of the households of newer immigrant families. Taking
conditions in typical industrial localities, the Federal Immigration Commission
found that the average number of persons per apartment or house was nearly six,
or about 1.30 persons to a room and about 2.50 persons to a sleeping room. In
nearly 77 per cent of the households in industrial communities there were two
or more persons to a sleeping room; in 37 per cent there were three or more
persons to a sleeping room, and in 15 per cent there were four or more to a
sleeping room. In nearly a third of the households every room except one was
used for sleeping purposes. In nearly a third of the workingmen's families it
was found that a separate family existence was prevented by the presence of
lodgers, and in the households of some of the newer immigrant races the number
of lodgers was extremely high. The average for Koumanian households was found
to be nearly 10 lodgers, of Servian households nearly 6, and of Croatian nearly
4.2. If the standard set by the New York State Conference Committee on the
Standard of Living, by which more than one and a half persons to a room is held
to be overcrowding, be accepted as a reasonable one, then the great extent of
congestion, not only in the principal population centers but also in the
industrial localities, large and small, is evident.

Overcrowding and disease.—There is no doubt that there is a relation between
overcrowding and the prevalence of disease; but as a factor in causing disease
it is so involved in other conditions that it is impossible to measure its
exact influence. This qualification must be borne in mind when considering
statistics of disease and overcrowding.

Dr. Russell found in Glasgow that in families occupying one and two room houses
nearly 28 out of every 1,000 died each year; in families occupying three and
four room houses the death rate was 19.4, and in houses of five or more rooms
the rate was only 11.2. Tuberculosis is a disease which has been found to be
peculiarly an incident of bad housing conditions. It is a "house disease," as
Dr. Osier has expressed it. European statistics on this point1 are apparently
confirmed by recent studies in New York City. A survey of the Washington Street
district2 showed that 57 per cent of the families lived in two rooms and 26 per
cent in three rooms, many of these families having lodgers. The death rate from
tuberculosis in this district in 1913 was between 500 and 600 per 100,000, or
about four times the rate generally prevalent. In one block in this district 63
cases of tuberculosis were found in 1913. Another study of 217 workingclass
families in New York City reported almost unbelievable conditions. In his
description and summary of this investigation, Fishberg said:3

1 The Federal Immigration Commission's investigation of over 17,000 families in
industrial localities showed that the average number of rooms per household was
4.34, and of over 10,000 families in large cities was 3.70. This was
corroborated by the British Board of Trade's study referred to above.

- These figures are based on the statistics secured by the Federal Immigration
Commission in its investigation of nearly 28,000 households of workingmen's
families in 19071909.

These families consisted of 1,369 persons, of whom 1,129 lived at "home 'i in
717 rooms and slept in 658 beds. That is about two to a bed and 1.57 to a room,
including kitchens. Of the 274 tuberculous persons only 112 had separate rooms
and only 138 had separate beds. Some consumptive mothers slept on chairs or on
the kitchen floors.

Depressing as this picture is, Fishberg's observation has been that such a
state of affairs is not unusual in industrial centers in the United States.

Lodging-house conditions.—The bad conditions that prevail in lodging houses
have been found to be peculiarly conducive to the spread of disease,
particularly of tuberculosis. In nearly all industrial communities to which
workers of the newer immigration have come the boarding and lodging house is a
familiar institution. There the foreign laborers who are unmarried or who have
left their families in their native land crowd together. The following
description of lodging-house conditions in East Youngstown, Ohio, is believed
to be typical4 of conditions in the immigrant districts of industrial
communities:5

By reason of the tendency of workmen of the same race to lodge in the same
section or town, the lodging houses exhibited many instances of extreme
overcrowding. Thus, in one case there were 23 lodgers in a four-room house, and
it was by no means uncommon to find a single room occupied by from 3 to 12

1 The familiar Berlin statistics showed that 42 per cent of all the cases of
tuberculosis occurred In families occupying but one room, 40 per cent where
they occupied two rooms, 12 per cent where they occupied three rooms, and only
6 per cent where they occupied four or more rooms. Williamson presented English
statistics which showed that 60 or 70 per cent of the cases of tuberculosis
occurred in houses of three rooms or less and that the number of cases wag
larger In two-room houses than In three, and larger in one-room houses than in
two. (British Journal of Tuberculosis, IX: 111-117, July, 1915.)

2 A Survey of the Washington Street District of New York City, 1914, pp. 56-57.
'Maurice Fishberg: A Study of the Child In the Tuberculosis Milieu. Arch.
Pediat..

February, 1914.

•The reports of the Federal Immigration Commission (vols. 8-20) contain a large
number of community studies in which descriptions of the immigrant lodging
houses appear that depict even worse conditions than shown in the above.

5 United States Public Health Service Public Health Reports, March 6, 1914: A
Report on the Prevalence of Trachoma among Steel Mill Workers In Bast
Youngstown, Ohio, by Surg. J. W. Schereschewsky, United States Public Health
Service, pp. 565-566.

workers. The lodgers, for the most part, slept two in a bed. In some of trie
lodging houses, where the men work on both "day and night turns," the
occupation of the beds is. almost continuous, the night men taking during the
day the places of those sleeping at night in the beds. The beds themselves were
usually old and in filthy condition, destitute of bed linen, the covers
consisting of old bedquilts. The washing facilities consisted of buckets or
hand basins, which were used in common by all the occupants of a room. The
houses themselves were for the most part built close together, so that the
rooms were dark. Very few of the rooms were susceptible of thorough
ventilation. Indeed, but little advantage would have been taken of such a
provision, as all windows were found carefully closed and the temperature was
still further raised by small stoves.

The observation of the above writer was that "the conditions in lodging houses
were such as not only to facilitate the spread of trachoma, or, for that
matter, of any communicable disease, but to cause one to wonder why the disease
is not more prevalent than it is."

An additional disease-causing factor in the lodging houses, especially in those
of the larger cities, is the fact that it is to them that the " casual" or "
floating" laborer, already impaired in health and in disease-resisting power,
comes for a shelter which is within his meager means. According to an
investigation of lodging-house conditions in New York City, the lodging-house
population is eleven times more subject to tuberculosis than the average
population.1

Community environment.—That the average unskilled wageworker and his family
live in a community environment unmistakably less healthful and possessing
fewer conveniences than that of the average person engaged in better-paid
pursuits is a fact which has impressed itself upon physicians and others in
contact with the working population. Numerous investigations and surveys have
called attention to a frequent lack of water and sewerage facilities, unpaved
or unkempt streets, and delays in making public improvements in " working-class
sections." In every American city and in the average American industrial
locality is to be found the " tenement section " or the " slums," as contrasted
with the " residential" and " business" sections. Since the newer immigration
has come into the unskilled occupations in American industries, practically all
industrial towns and cities now have their " little Italies" and their "
Hungary hollows."2

The extent to which unfavorable community conditions actually exist is hardly
appreciated. Although studies in New York City showed that a few years ago over
a million wageworkers had no bathing facilities in their homes and an even
greater number were limited to the use of sanitary conveniences in common with
other families; although until recently 2,000 antiquated privy sinks existed in
densely populated sections in New York City and there were 100,000 rooms which
were dark and unventilated, yet there have been found equally as bad, if not
worse, conditions in scores of manufacturing and mining localities where large
numbers of unskilled and low-paid workers are employed. Dr. George T. Palmer,
the health officer of Springfield, 111., has cited the example of one city
where millions of dollars had been expended for water and sewers and where it
was generally presumed that a large majority of its population utilized these
facilities, but where a survey disclosed the fact that only one-third of the
people had sanitary connections, thereby explaining the undue prevalence of
typhoid fever. Recent investigations have shown that earth closets, outdoor
closets, and cesspools are all too numerous in the congested districts of all
of our large cities. These facts are not cited for the purpose of belittling
the improvements that have been made or are being undertaken, but to give some
idea of the magnitude of the work which local and State health authorities
have, before them. The significant point here is the fact that these
disease-causing conditions have been found to exist chiefly, and in some cases
entirely, in those sections and localities inhabited by wage earners and their
families. They thus contribute their share to the complexity of the problem of
the wageworker's health.

1 C. B. Barnes: Tuberculosis Among Homeless Men and in Lodging Houses, Journal
of Outdoor Life, April, 1914.

'The Federal Immigration Commission conducted a large number of "community"
Investigations in 1907-1909 which have afforded valuable descriptions of
Industrial localities from the standpoint of the environment of the wageworker.
(See Reports of the U. S. Immigration Commission, vols. 6-20.) In addition, a
great deal of interesting and valuable material on this phase of the problem is
to be found in housing surveys published in pamphlet or book form, In Margaret
Byington's book "Homestead: A Mill Town," and in many articles in the
periodical press written by social workers.

Effects of unfavorable community environment upon health.—In determining the
effects of community conditions upon health, it is difficult to state in exact
figures just how much of the higher morbidity and mortality rates among the
wageworking population is due to community environment and how much to other
conditions. But it is clear that community environment has direct detrimental
effects on health. This is suggested by the results of Dr. Antonio Stella's
intensive study of six tenement blocks in New York City. There it was found
that, while the death rate at that time for the city as a whole was 18.3 per
thousand and 51.5 for children under five years of age, it varied in these
particular blocks from 22.3 to 24.9 per thousand for all ages and from 59.2 to
92.2 per thousand for children under five years of age.

An investigation of three "working-class" districts in Cleveland, one typical
of the best community conditions, one of average conditions, and one of the
worst conditions, found that the tuberculosis rate per thousand in 1912 was 35
for the worst, 23 for the average, and 5 for the best. The districts were rated
according to the usual standards of sanitation.

The findings of a committee of the American Iron and Steel Institute which
visited a number of industrial towns are of especial significance in this
connection. Dr. Thomas Darlington, secretary of the welfare committee of the
institute, in commenting upon these findings, said:1

A study of the causes of death shows that, In general, but 4 per cent die from
old age, 4 per cent more die from violence, and 92 per cent die from disease.
Of this last great group, nearly one-half are due to diseases of environment;
that is, to diseases which * * * are wholly preventable. Taking 15 of the
principal towns visited by the institute, excluding the large cities, the death
rates average 19 per 1,000—easily double what it should be and at least
one-third more than the rate of some cities of larger size.

These conditions are similar to those indicated by the mortality statistics of
the Federal census for many localities where large numbers of low-paid
wageworkers live. While the death rate for the entire registration area in 1913
was found to be 14.1 per 1,000, in certain communities where investigation has
shown the prevalence of low wages and unfavorable sanitary conditions the rate
was much higher. The higher rate in these communities was not attributable to
occupational hazards, since it was above that of other communities where
similar occupations prevailed. It is only necessary to note, for example, that
the death rate in 1913 for Fall River, Mass., was 17.2; for Johnstown, Pa.,
16.9; for McKee's Rocks, Pa., 16.9; for Shenandoah, Pa., 18.9; and for
Braddock, Pa., 23.2. As it is generally recognized that mortality returns in
localities of this type are more or less incomplete, it is safe to say that the
rates cited are lower than more thorough and complete vital statistics would
show.

Infant mortality as an indicator of the healthfulness of environ^ ment.
—Mortality among children is generally recognized as a very sensitive indicator
of the health conditions of a community. The Federal census reports for the
five years, 1909 to 1913, inclusive, showed that the deaths among children
under 5 years of age averaged 27 per cent of ^all deaths in registration cities
of the United States, as contrasted with considerably higher percentages for
certain iron and steel manufacturing towns, where investigations have shown
unhealthful conditions to* exist and where low-paid wage earners constitute a
large part of the population.2 This contrast is strikingly shown by the
following statistics:

1" Health and Efficiency," an address delivered at the annual banquet of the
American Iron and Steel Institute, held in New York City, May 17, 1912.
Published in pamphlet form.

2 Iron and steel towns are used as illustrations not because there is any
direct connection between the Industry and child mortality, but because it Is
generally true in iron and steel towns that there is little opportunity for
factory or mill employment of women. Hence in the above statistics the factor
of wagework of mothers is practically eliminated from the question of child
mortality.

Table 3.—Per cent which deaths of children under 5 years of age are of total
deaths at all ages, average for all registration cities and for certain iron
and steel totems, for the 5-year period 1909-1913.

Per cent.

All cities in the registration area (average) , 27

Iron and steel communities:

Braddock, Pa ___' 51

Carnegie, Pa 47

Homestead, Pa 57

Johnstown, Pa 40

Monessen, Pa 67

South Bethlehem, Pa 55

Steelton, Pa 45

Loraine, Ohio 45

Toungstown, Ohio 39

Gary, Ind 48

Thus the percentage of all deaths of children under 5 years of age in these
industrial communities during the period indicated was from 50 to 150 per cent
above the average for all cities in the registration area.

An even sharper contrast is shown when communities of this type are compared
with residential communities composed largely of well-to-do families. For
example, in Brookline, Mass., the deaths of children under 5 years of age for
the same period averaged 10 per cent of all deaths. In East Orange, N. J., the
percentage was 17.1.

The iron and steel communities included in the above table are but typical of
other industrial communities where the coming in of large numbers of newer
immigrant races has outstripped the community's realization of the need for a
corresponding development of public-welfare provisions and administration. In
Johnstown, for example, according to recent investigations,1 the line of
demarcation between sections occupied by low-paid foreign-born workingmen's
families and the sections occupied by families of skilled workers, business
men, and other residents is sharply drawn. In .the "working class" sections bad
sewerage, insufficient water connections, inadequate street improvements, and
infrequent cleaning of streets were found to be plainly prevalent. Lack of
proper municipal supervision of the milk supply was most evident in the case of
milk consumed by the poorer families.1 While insufficient family income and bad
housing and household conditions also had their effects, the infant mortality
rate was reported to be much higher in the unfavorable sections than in the
other sections. In the distinctly unskilled workingmen's wards the infant
mortality rates were found to range from 156 to 271, while in the other wards
the rates ranged from 50 to 125.

1 See United States Department of Labor, Children's Bureau: Infant Mortality,
Results of Field Study In Johnstown, Pa., based on births in one calendar year
(pp. 14-20), and Reports of the Immigration Commission, Vol. 8 (p. 436).
Johnstown was selected as a typical Industrial community for Intensive
Investigation by both the Immigration Commission and the Children's Bureau.
(See Reports of the Immigration Commission, Vol. 8, p. 237; Jenks and Lauck:
The Immigration Problem, 3d ed., p. 72; Children's Bureau report sup. cit., p.
5.)

THE EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN.

The entrance of women as wage earners into the modern factory, mercantile, and
other mechanical establishments and offices is a factor in the problem of the
health of the wage-working population, which is largely, if not entirely, due
to economic pressure. According to the census of 1910, of the 8,000,000 women
ordinarily termed "women in industry," nearly 37 per cent, or about 3,000,000,
are engaged in various occupations in stores, mills, and factories. Practically
every investigation of the reasons for the entrance of women into industry has
shown that their presence in industrial occupations is almost wholly in
response to the necessity for earning a living. Approximately four-fifths of
women workers live with their families and contribute to the support of their
families.2 They are, for the most part, the wives and daughters of the
wage-earning heads of families. A number of investigations indicate that in
fully onetenth of the wage-earners' families in the United States the wife is a
wageworker.3 In certain industries the proportion of wage-earning wives and
mothers is considerably higher.4

Effects of industrial occupation upon the health of women wageworkers.—The
factor of sex renders the problem of the health of the wage-working population
more acute and complex. In view of the generally accepted fact that in the
population as a whole the female mortality rate is less than the male, it would
seem reasonable to assume that, excluding confinements, the female morbidity
rate is not greater than the male. Among women employed as wageworkers,
however, these conditions are apparently reversed.

1 The investigation into the milk supply in Johnstown was made by the Federal
Bureau of Animal Industry in 1913, and the report of the investigation is
published as a part of the Federal Children's Bureau infant mortality study
(sup. clt., Appendix III). Since this report was made a citizens' campaign for
clean milk has been conducted with beneficial results. The unfavorable milk
situation existed, however, at the times the Children's Bureau and the
Immigration Commission made their investigations.

2 United States Bureau of Labor: Woman and Child Wage Earners, Vol. V, p. 15,
including data for women workers in retail stores and In factories in several
large cities; Wisconsin Industrial Commission, 1914, report on wage-earning
women, including data for over 17,000 workers; United States Census, data for
about 900,000 working women; etc.

3 Eighteenth Annual Report of the United States Commissioner of Labor, p. 51;
Reports of the United States Immigration Commission, Vol. 19, p. 128; etc.

4 United States Bureau of Labor: Woman and Child Wage Earners: Vol. IV, p. 263
(for silk industry) ; Ibid., Vol. Ill, p. 524 (for glass industry) ; ibid.,
Vol. I, p. 432 (for textile workers in New England and Southern mills.)

Perry's statistics of cotton-mill operatives and statistics of the Leipzig,
Austrian, and Italian insurance funds show that the mortality rate of female
wage earners under 40 years of age is higher than that of male wage earners in
the same age group. Not until the age of 40 is passed does the natural excess
of mortality among males assert itself.1

Since few women remain in industry after 35 years of age, it would appear that
the morbidity and mortality expectancy of women industrially employed is
greater than that of women in the population as a whole in similar age groups.
Perry, in his study of the causes of death among women and child cotton-mill
workers, found that the death rate among female operatives was more than twice
as high as that of females outside of the mills. This difference, he found,
could not be attributed to living conditions in the localities where his
investigation was made because the living conditions of both operatives and
nonoperatives were similar from the standpoint of health. He thus found it
impossible "to escape the conclusion that operative work is prejudicial to
health of females, that the combination of operative work with matrimony is
especially harmful, and that, while the general hazards of female operatives is
greater than that of nonoperatives, she is in most danger from tuberculosis."1

[graphic]
[table]

1 The following tabulation combines in brief form the statistics referred to
above:

Excess of female over male death rate per 100,000 according to age group.
[— denotes excess of male over female death rate.)

"Perry; supra cit., p. 75. The American cotton-mill workers statistics indicate
in this instance that the proportion of women over 25 years of age engaged in
the mills is larger than the usual proportion of women wageworkers over that
age in American or European industries in general.

& Leipzig Local Sick Fund, statistics for 1887 to 1905, Twenty-third Annual
Report of tho United States Commissioner of Labor: Workmen's Insurance and
Compensation Systems in Europe, Vol. I, p. 1269.

'The ago groups are "15J to 20J," "over 20J to 25J," etc. See Amtllche
Nachrichten betr. Unfall-und Krankenvorsicherung, 1893, and the Twenty-third
Annual Report of the Commissioner of Labor, sup. cit., p. 295.

* Journal of tho Royal Statistical Society, Vol. LV, London, 1892: Morbidity
and Mortality according to Occupation, by Dr. Jacques Bertillon, quoting
statistics of the Statistical Office of Italy. See also Goldmark: Fatigue and
Efficiency, Part II, p. 24.

* L. I. Dublin, Statistician Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.: Tho Insurability
of Women. An Address before American Life Convention, Aug. 19,1913, p. 1.

Note.—The differences in actual excess of female death rates in tho statistics
above may be due to differences in occupation and conditions of living. The
fact of an excess, however, appears common to all countries.

Statistics from American and European sources show that the female wage earner
loses more time on account of sickness than the male. For example, the Leipzig
figures for about one and a quarter million insured wage earners, of whom over
250,000 were women, covering a period of 19 years (1887-1905), show an average
of 8.55 days lost per annum per male insured person as contrasted with 10.30
per female insured person.2 These well-known data are corroborated by other
European statistics.3

Statistics for over 16,000 Government employees working in the departments at
Washington, D. C, of whom over 4,000 were females, show for the year 1914 that
males lost an average of 4.82 days and

1 Report on Condition of Woman and Child Wage Earners in the United States,
Vol. XIV: Causes of Death Among Woman and Child Cotton Mill Operatives, by
Arthur R. Ferry, M. D. (S. Doc. No. 645, 61st Cong., 2d sess.), p. 32.

* These statistics are reprinted in the Twenty-Fourth Annual Report of the U.S.
Commissioner of Labor, Vol. I, pp. 1261, 1262.

* Goldmark has collected statistics from a number of European sources which are
summarized in her volume Fatigue and Efficiency (Part II, pp. 10-25). From this
collection the following references and quotations are made: Swiss statistics,
Dr. Fridolin Schuler: Fabrikhygiene und Gesetzgebung, Sixth International
Congress of Hygiene and Demography, Vienna, 1887, Part XIV, Vol. 1, French
statistics, records of a mutual society of silk workers in Lyons, Trance, 1889,
quoted by Dr. Alexander Layet: i>e Travail des Enfants et des Femmes dans
l'Industrie, in Encyclopedia of Hygiene and Public Medicine, Paris, 1894, Vol.
6, p. 721. Bertillon presented statistics from the Lyons silk workers and the
Italian societies a number of years ago in one of the first discussions of the
comparative morbidity and mortality of male and female workers. See a
translation from the Journal de la Soeu't e" de Ctatistique de Paris,
October-November, 1892, in the Journal of the Royal Statistical Society
(London), Vol. LV, pp. 564-565. These statistics are summarized in the
following table:

Comparative morbidity of the two sexes: Days of sickness per annum per member.

[table]

females 8.90 days on account of sickness. This difference, as generally shown
by records of morbidity for wage-earning men and women, can not be explained
altogether on the ground that days lost on account of confinement are included
in the statistics for female workers. In the Austrian, statistics for insured
persons, where time lost on account of confinement is separated from the total
time lost on account of disability, the disability rate for males and females
varies. For example, in the years 1890 to 1899 the female rate is higher than
the male, whereas in the years 1900 to 1907 the male rate is higher than the
female.1 When, however, the differences due to accidents, which are included in
the statistics, and the higher average age of the males are considered, it is
very probable that the sick rate for women is higher than the male rate, even
when time lost on account of confinement is excluded.

By most writers the greater morbidity of women wage earners has been explained
by the longer duration of sickness of women as compared with men. It is true,
as a number of well-known investigations have shown, that the average length of
illness of female wageworkers is longer than that of male wageworkers.1 When,
however, the statistics of morbidity for men and women employed in the same
industry or under similar conditions are compared, it appears that women
workers are sick more often than men.2

[table]

1 Rates of sickness in Austrian sick funds, by sex, 1890-1907.

Amtliche Nachrichten betr. Unfall- und Krankenversicherung 1892-1909, quoted in
Twenty-fourth Annual Report of the United States Commissioner of Labor, 1909,
Vol. I, p. 276.

1A compilation of some of the more important European statistics, as published
in Dr. Friedrich Prinsing's Handbuch der Medizinischen Statistik (p. 116), will
serve to illustrate familiar experience:

Average length of illness among men and women workers.

[graphic]
[table]

Other statistics point to the same conclusion. Dr. Fridolin Schuler, in the
course of his careful examinations of Swiss factory workers, found that the
duration of illness among males was only 85 per cent of what it was among
women, and the average duration of sickness in 1889 was 21 days for men as
compared with 25 days for women (Schuler and Burckhardt: Untersuchungen fiber
die Gesundheitsverhaltnisse der Fabrikbevolkeruug der Schweiz, p. 34). The
report of the mutual aid societies in Switzerland for 1903, for example, showed
that the men who received sick relief averaged 23.55 days of illness and the
women 32.46 (Die Gegenseitigen Hilfsgesollschaften in der Schweiz in Jahre
1903, p. 42). German statistics for 1900, compiled from the records of the
German national sickness insurance system, showed that while 3.5 per cent of
male workers in 100 cases of sickness lost from 14 to 25 weeks, the percentage
for women workers was 5.7, and a greater percentage of women were ill more than
25 weeks than of men (Statistik des Deutschen Reichs, vol. 180: Sickness
insurance for 1900, compiled in the Imperial Office of Statistics, quoting
Heym). The statistics from the sources named above are summarized in Goldmark:
Fatigue and Efficiency, Part n, pp. 15-20.

2 The statistics collected by the Austrian Government from the records of
sickness insurance societies for over six and a quarter million males and about
two million females, covering the period 1891-1905, showed a greater frequency
of illness among women workers than among men in nearly all instances where
they were engaged in the same occupation or industry. The following tabulation
shows the relative morbidity rates of men and women in a number of industries,
f requency of illness being taken as the measure of morbidity (Amtliche
Nachrichten betr. Unfall- und Krankenversicherung, 1900; see Twenty-fourth
Annual Keport of the United States Commissioner of Labor, pp.
381,382-383,385-386,389, and 392):

Frequency of sickness among male and female workers insured in Austrian sick
funds, 1891 to 1896, in certain occupations and industries, by age groups.

[table]

a Not including confinements in data relating to disability. Schuler, Pieper
and Simon, and von Arlt have noted the same conclusions in their investigations
and statistical studies. See Schuler, Sixth International Congress of Hygiene
and Demography, sup. cit., p. 29; Schuler and Burckhardt, sup. cit., pp. 33-34;
Pieper and Simon, Die Herabsetzung der Arbeitszeit fiir Frauen urd die Erhohung
des Schutzalters filr jugendliche Arbeiter in Fabriken, Publications of the
Social Reform Society, Nos. 7 and 8,1903, p. 93. Pieper and Simon's references
are to the experience in the Berlin printing trades and to the statistics of
German sickness insurance in general. Von Arlt's studies were of the Austrian
sickness insurance experience. See Use von Arlt, Le Travail de Nuit des Femmes
dans l'lndustrie en Autriche, in Bauer's Night Work among Women in
Industry—Reports on its importance and Legal Regulation, 1903, p. 100. The data
from Schuler, Pieper and Simon, and von Arlt are summarized by Goldmark:
Fatigue and Efficiency, Part II, pp. 11-14.

Causes of a greater health hazard to women wage earners.—The greater health
hazard to wage-earning women is admitted to be due primarily to the difference
in sex, but among other special conditions which tend to increase the hazard to
wage-earning women may be mentioned the precariousness of their employment and
the additional work imposed by household duties. The precariousness of their
employment is a constant spur to them to go beyond the limit of their strength,
particularly where they are employed on piecework. The household duties of
wage-earning women, especially of working mothers, impose double work. The
workday of the wage-earning mother begins considerably earlier than the opening
of the gates of the mill or factory or of the doors of the store in which she
is employed, and is not ended when she comes home. She can not afford, even if
she appreciates its importance, to stay at home for a proper period of rest
before and after confinement.

Effects of employment of mothers upon viability and health of children.
—Investigators of the effects of employment of mothers upon the viability and
health of their offspring have as yet failed to present statistics which show
conclusively that the mortality rate among infants of employed mothers is
markedly greater than among those of mothers not industrially employed. In
fact, some careful studies indicate the conclusion that, while there is no
doubt as to the prejudicial influence of employment of pregnant and nursing
mothers in factories upon the health of both mothers and infants, poverty has a
much more deleterious influence, and if by employment poverty can be removed or
lessened, such employment is the lesser by far of the two evils.1 But when
poverty is not mitigated by the mothers' wages to such an extent as to offset
the effects of artificial feeding and lack of care of their infants entailed by
their absence, the deleterious influence of such employment upon the viability
and health of their infants may appear.

The effects, however, of employment of mothers upon the prenatal condition of
their infants are suggested by records of infants at birth and of premature
births. Records of the weights of several thousands of babies at birth show a
difference in weight of one-fourth to threefourths of a pound in favor of the
babies of mothers who were not employed within the last two weeks before
confinement.1 Eobertson's records show that premature births were more than
one-third greater among mothers employed before confinement as compared with
mothers not so employed, and he concludes that factory labor has a distinct
influence in causing premature births.2

'Infant Mortality In Relation to Factory Labor, by John Robertson, M. D., B.
Sc, medical officer of health, Birmingham, England, Transactions of the
Fifteenth International Congress on Hygiene and Demography, Washington, 1912,
Vol. Ill, Part II, p. 952. See also Infant Mortality and its Relation to
Women's Employment, in Vol. XIII of Federal Bureau of Labor's Report on
Condition of Woman and Child Wage Earners, PP. 48-49; Infant Mortality,
Johnstown, Pa., Federal Children's Bureau, p. 49. The statistical evidence on
this point is discussed in some detail in The Influence of Economic and
Industrial Conditions on Infant Mortality, by H. H. Hibbs, jr., Quarterly
Journal of Economics, XXX, 127-151 (November, 1915).

44412°—16 3

ECONOMIC STATUS OF WAGE EARNERS.

No attempt to present the real meaning of the problem of health among
wageworkers and their families can be complete without taking into
consideration their economic status—the wages they earn and the income which
the wage earner's family is able to receive—and comparing it with those
standards which have been agreed upon as reasonable and necessary for the
maintenance of health.3

1 See editorial in the Journal of the American Medical Association, "Work
During Pregnancy and the Weight of the Child," Jan. 31, 1014, Vol. LXII, pp.
382-383. Pinard gives the average weight of children of mothers working up to
the time of delivery as 6J pounds, against 1\ pounds for children of mothers
who rested during the last months of pregnancy. Peller, working under the
direction of Teleky at the University of Vienna, found that children of rich
mothers showed a superiority of weight over children of working mothers
employed up to the time of confinement, the superiorty in weight being 215
grams for boys and 150 grams for girls. The influence of a short respite from
work and worry of women coming to the hospital in time for a period of rest is
shown in a comparison of the weights of children of women having a respite and
of those working up to confinement, the superiority of the children of the
former being 118 grams for boys and 126 for girls. He found that rest during
the last two weeks was of greater importance than at any other time during
confinement. See Peller, Der Elnfluss sozialen Momente auf den kSrperlichen
Entwicklungszustand der Neugeborenen, Sonderabdruck aus dem Beiheft der
Wochenschrift das osterreichische Sanitatswesen, 1013, No. 38.

2 Robertson, John, sup. cit., p. 940.

3 The data upon which the statements in this summary are based have been drawn
from an examination of the official and authoritative investigations and
reports published in this country during the last 15 years, particularly during
the past 7 years. Computations of annual earnings from weekly wages have been
avoided, only statistics of actual annual earnings and income being included.
Statistics of weekly wages and earnings of workers have been consulted in the
Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Kansas State reports, the leports of the United
States Immigration Commission, the New York State Factory Investigating
Commission, the Federal report on Woman and Child Wage Earners, the Federal
Census report of 1905, the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics' investigation of
wages in the dress and waist industry in New York City, the Federal reports on
the Lawrence, Mass., strike, and the Michigan strike, the Massachusetts Minimum
Wage Commission's investigations, the reports of Washington (State) Industrial
Welfare Commission, the Minnesota Minimum Wage Commission, the Missouri Senate
Wage Committee, the Kentucky Commission to Investigate Conditions of Working
Women, the Oregon Social Survey Committee, the Connecticut Bureau of Labor, the
Illinois Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Ohio Industrial Commission, the
Consumers' League of Eastern Pennsylvania, and the Federal Bureau of Labor
Statistics' investigation of women in mercantile and factory establishments in
Indiana. In addition, data have been utilized from Miss Van Kleeck's studies of
women and girl workers in various trades, the University of Chicago settlement
studies in the Chicago stockyards district, the Russell Sage Foundation's
studies in the Pittsburgh district, etc. Statistics of annual earnings have
been consulted in the reports of the United States Immigration Commission, the
United States Bureau of Labor (Eighteenth Annual Report), and the State reports
of Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin. Family income
statistics have been consulted in the reports of the United States Immigration
Commission, the Eighteenth Annual Report of the Federal Commissioner of Labor,
and the various budgetary studies referred to in the foregoing pages.

Wages.—Without taking into consideration the loss of working time for any
cause, it has been found that during recent years in the principal industries
of the United States, between one-fourth and one-third of the male workers of
approximately 18 years of age and over earned less than $10 a week, from
two-thirds to three-fourths earned less than $15, and only about one-tenth
earned more than $20 a week. In textile manufacturing and some other industries
the wage level was much lower. Native born and older immigrant workers from
Great Britain and northern Europe earned somewhat higher weekly wages than did
the newer immigrant workers from southern and eastern Europe. The wages of
women workers were considerably lower than those of men. From two-thirds to
threefourths of women workers in factories, stores, laundries, and in
industrial occupations generally worked at wages of less than $8 a week.
Approximately one-fifth earned less than $4 and nearly onehalf earned less than
$6 a week.

Loss in working time.—A conservative estimate, based on all of the available
statistics of loss in working time, would appear to be that wageworkers in the
principal manufacturing and mining industries lost on the average from
one-fifth to one-third of the full working time during a year from all causes.
This estimate does not include those industries which normally operated for
short seasons in the year. The loss of working time varied greatly according to
the industry, occupation, and locality, but it was greatest in those industries
where the proportion of unskilled, low-paid workers was large.

Annual earnings.—Annual earnings of wageworkers were therefore considerably
lower than 52 times their weekly wages. According to investigations to which
reference has been made it appears that in the principal industries fully
one-fourth of adult male workers who are heads of families earned less than
$400, one-half earned less than $600, four-fifths earned less than $800, and
less than onetenth earned as much as $1,000 a year. Approximately one-fourth of
the women workers 18 years of age and over employed in the principal
manufacturing industries earned less than $200 a year, and twothirds earned
less than $400.

Family income.—Statistics of total incomes of wageworkers' families point to
the conclusion that the average total annual family income in the principal
manufacturing and mining industries has been between $700 and $800 in recent
years. This average, however, does not adequately depict the real situation;
for the conclusion is also indicated that one in every 10 or 12 workingmen's
families had at the time of the investigations an annual income of less than
$300 a year; that nearly a third had incomes of less than $500, and over
one-half had incomes of less than $750 a year. It is also apparent that, with
the exception of the small proportion of work

ingmen's families whose heads earned $800 or more a year, the total family
income was considerably larger than the earnings of the father. It has indeed
been found that considerably over one-half of wage-earning families were
dependent upon some other source than the support of their heads. And,
generally speaking, it is true that in proportion to the insufficiency of the
earnings of the father the greater is the necessity for additional income from
the wages of wife and children and payments from boarders and lodgers.

Adequacy of wages and income.—The significance of the above statistics lies in
the extent to which actual earnings have been sufficient to provide for a
healthful standard of life under existing conditions. Several studies by
various authorities on actual conditions in workingmen's families tend to agree
very closely that unless a family of the average size1 has an annual income of
$800 or more,2 it can not maintain a healthful standard. This conclusion is
apparently confirmed by statistics of expenditures in workingmen's families
which show that the point of adequate subsistence is not reached until the
family income is approximately $800 or more.3

For women wageworkers, $8 to $9 a week has been agreed upon as the least amount
upon which a self-supporting woman can maintain a standard of healthful living.
This estimate is based on the conclusions and determinations of State minimum
wage commissions and other investigating bodies.4

It is possible that more comprehensive and detailed investigations of wages and
earnings may point to slightly or even materially different conclusions. But
suficient information of an accurate character exists to substantiate the
observation of everyone familiar with living and working conditions, that a
very considerable proportion of wage earners and their families have not been
able to obtain a sufficient income to permit of a healthful standard of living.

I-OVERTY AND DISEASE.

From the foregoing it is evident that underlying all other economic factors
affecting the wage earners' health is the fact of poverty. The other conditions
that have been discussed—unhealthful living and working conditions, insecurity
and irregularity of employment and income, inadequacy of earnings of heads of
families, and the necessity for earning of wages by mothers and children—these
and other such conditions are but incidents of poverty. The importance of
poverty is further emphasized by the facts that the relief of sickness and
disease prevention are expensive and that disease is most prevalent among those
least able to purchase health.

1 A family of five persons—father, mother, and three dependent children.

2 B. C. Chapin: Standard of Living In New York City; L. B. More: Wage-Earners'
Budgets; New York State Conference of Charities and Corrections committee on
standards of living; M. Byington: The Households of a Mill Town ; J. C.
Kennedy: Wages and Family Budgets in the Chicago Stockyards District; Fourth
Annual Report of the New York State Factory Investigating Commission, Vol. IV;
New York City Bureau of Standards: Report on the Cost of Living for an
Unskilled Laborer's Family.

3 United States Bureau of Labor: 18th Annual Report; R. C. Chapin, sup. cit.; 
More, sup. cit.; British Board of Trade: Report on Cost of Living in American
Towns.

* California Industrial Welfare Commission; Massachusetts Minimum Wage
Commission; Minnesota Minimum Wage Commission; Nebraska Bureau of Labor and
Industrial Statistics; Washington Industrial Welfare Commission; Wisconsion
Industrial Commission; Ohio Industrial Commission; Connecticut Bureau of Labor;
Kentucky Commission to Investigate the Conditions of Working Women in Kentucky;
New York State Factory Investigating Commission; and a number of private
investigators and writers have set standards for a minimum "living wage" for
women.

Partnership of poverty and disease.—In all countries the partnership of poverty
and disease has been seen. Levasseur found that the death rate in the poorer
sections of Paris was 31.3 per 1,000 per annum, as contrasted with 16.2 for
"middle" class sections and 13.4 for the richest sections.1 Robertson's studies
of an area in Birmingham, England, which was "peopled largely by unskilled
artisans with low wages," showed that the death rate in 1908 was 22.5 per
thousand in this section, while that for the whole city was under 15 per
thousand.2

Recent investigations tend to point unmistakably to the fact that poverty is
the most important factor in causing infant mortality.3 In all campaigns for
the prevention of disease poverty has always been the most formidable obstacle.
In no instance is this better illustrated than in the campaign against
tuberculosis. Realizing this fact, the Society for Improving the Condition of
the Poor in New York City has adopted the method of removing entire families to
a " home hospital" in order to eliminate the conditions of poverty.4

Poverty a result as well as a cause of disease.—But poverty is not merely a
cause of sickness; it is also a result of sickness. Sickness is so intimately
related to destitution that it is often impossible to determine whether it is a
cause or an effect. Records of the causes of destitution show that sickness is
one of the most prolific causes. A recent study of the causes of destitution in
31,000 cases in 43 industrial localities in the United States developed the
fact that charity relief was required in about 21 per cent of the cases because
of the illness of the family breadwinner and that 18 per cent more needed
assistance because of the illness of another member of the family.1

1 La Population Francaise, 1889-1902, Vol. II, p. 402.

2 John Robertson, M. D.: Infant Mortality in Relation to Factory Labor,
Transactions of the Fifteenth International Congress on Hygiene and Demography,
Vol. Ill, Part II, pp. 947—948. It is interesting to note that Rountree, in his
classic study of poverty in York, England, found that the death rate in the
"poorest" section was 27.8, in the "middle" class section 20.7, and in the
"highest" 13.5 (see B. S. Rountree: Poverty— A Study in Town Life, 1902, p.
205).

s United States Department of Labor, Children's Bureau: Infant
Mortality—Results of a Field Study in Johnstown, Pa., p. 45. In families where
the father earned less than $521 a year, or less than $10 a week, the infant
mortality rate was 255.7, as contrasted with 134.7 for the community as a
whole, and it was three times as high as in families where the father earned
$1,200 or more a year. In a similar investigation in Montclair, N. J., the
Children's Bureau found that the infant mortality rate in families where the
Income was less than $12 a week was more than twice as high as in families
where the income was $23 or more a week. A study of infant mortality in Fall
River, Mass., in 1913 showed that a higher rate was prevalent in the families
of low-paid textile workers than in other families. (L. I. Dublin: Infant
Mortality in Fall River, Mass., American Statistical Association Publications,
XIV, 505-520.) Robertson's Birmingham study showed that the infant mortality
rate in families where the father earned less than a pound a week was 196 in
1910 and 211 in 1909, as contrasted with 127 in 1910 and 146 in 1909 in
families where the father earned a pound or more a week. (Loo. cit., p. 950.)

1 Poverty and Tuberculosis, Two Years of the Home Hospital Experiment, 1912-14.
Publication No. 84, New York Society for Improving the Condition of the Poor.
Two years of this experiment, during which a large number of entire families
have been treated, have shown that "with these three items—a decent home, and
adequate budget, and proper supervision—families afflicted with the ills
flowing from tuberculosis and poverty can be rehabilitated," p. 5.

Thus a vicious circle of economic disadvantages due to sickness and conditions
causing sickness is established. Overwork and worry, insanitary housing and
community surroundings, and lack of nutritious food are frequent causes of
sickness. Sickness, in turn, reduces the family's economic status by entailing
extra expenses and loss of wages, weakens efficiency, and demoralizes the
worker. There can be little doubt that such a circle throws more wage earners
on the scrap heap than accidents, increases the necessity for charity giving,
burdens the state with delinquents, and helps to fill the army of casual
laborers with derelict recruits.

III. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONDITIONS CAUSING DISEASE.

With the relation of working and living conditions to the health of wage
earners and their families so manifest, it is pertinent to point out that three
groups are mainly responsible for adverse conditions, namely, the employers,
the public, and the wage earners themselves. From this point of view, without
attempting to discuss in detail so extensive a subject, it is necessary to
indicate to some degree the extent of the responsibility of each group in order
to arrive at a reasonable basis for cooperation in the relief and prevention of
sickness.

CAUSES OF SICKNESS FROM THE STANDPOINT OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR THEIR

REMOVAL.

Leaving heredity out of consideration, the causes of sickness among wageworkers
and their families may be grouped, then, according to the responsibility for
their control, as follows:

1. Conditions for which the employer and the industry are responsible.

1 Reports of the United States Immigration Commission, vol. 34. Cities included
In this study were chiefly smaller and middle sized Industrial communities, New
York and Philadelphia not being included. Nearly 62 per cent of the cases were
native-born individuals and families, nearly 75 per cent of the men afforded
relief were married at the time, and over 50 per cent included families where
there were three or more children. According to the reports of the New York
Board of Charities for 1910 nearly one-third of the 328,000 persons receiving
relief had been rendered destitute because of sickness. Of 5,000 destitute
families coming under the observation of the Charity Organization Society in
New York City, three-fourths were found to be destitute wholly or partly on
account of sickness. (E. T. Devine: Misery and its Causes, p. 204.)

2. Conditions for which the public, through its regulatory and welfare
agencies, is responsible.

3. Conditions for which the individual worker and his family are responsible.

It is of course apparent that there are some conditions for which there is a
joint or overlapping responsibility. For example, the public, as well as the
employer, is responsible for conditions in places of work because the public
occupies the position of a regulating power. With the acceptance of the
principle that a state or a community can not progress without healthy
citizens, the responsibility of the public has taken on a wider application,
and in a corresponding degree the public has come to feel that employers
generally have not measured up to their responsibilities. Reflexly, perhaps,
there is a growing tendency among employers to realize that better provisions
for the health of their employees are in accordance with sound business
principles because they increase their employees' efficiency. Certainly the
stimulus given to the adoption of precautionary measures against accidents by
the enactment of compensation laws has accelerated this tendency.

Conditions for wMch employer and industry are primarily responsible.—In a broad
sense it may be said that conditions of work which cause sickness or impairment
of physical or mental vigor come within the field of the responsibility of the
employer and of the industry. There are, of course, certain important
qualifications. Irregularity of employment is a condition of work for which the
employer is often only partially responsible, since the seasonal and cyclical
fluctuations in industrial activity and the efficacy of employment agencies and
of methods of vocational education and guidance are factors beyond, or largely
beyond, his control. It has not been determined as yet where the responsibility
for low standards of wages rests. Whether labor is a commodity the price of
which is to be controlled by the unrestricted "natural" adjustments of its
supply and demand or whether public welfare must require that labor be not
employed except at wages sufficient and regular enough to maintain a healthful
subsistence are still mooted questions. Certainly, in some instances at least,
the level of wages has been the result of custom and of evolutionary
developments in industry for which society at large is partially responsible.
Again, where the employer is the owner of the houses in which his employees
live and is the controlling force in determining their community environment,
his responsibility evidently extends considerably beyond conditions in places
of work.

But without going into a detailed discussion of the exact bounds of the
responsibility of employers for the welfare of their employees under various
conditions, the fact that such a responsibility is being recognized is the most
important consideration here. There are many evidences of a tendency for a very
definite recognition wherever it is possible to set the limits of this
responsibility. Employers' liability for accidents while at work is rapidly
becoming a nation-wide practice. That the employer of labor should not endanger
the health and lives of his employees by forcing them to work too many hours a
day or under insanitary conditions and other conditions dangerous to health is
a principle which has not only been enacted into law, but which has been upheld
by the highest courts.

Of even greater significance is the fact that employers themselves are
gradually coming to a fuller recognition of their responsibilities. So far as
the tangible effects are concerned, it does not matter whether their
recognition is based on principles of efficiency or altruism; the fact
pertinent here is that more and more of them are going on the assumption that
the modern factory should be so equipped and so operated that the least
possible harm and the greatest possible good to the workers will result. Of
perhaps greater importance than the various provisions for the workers' health
in the form of "welfare work" is the growing tendency for employers to make
contributions to the sickness insurance funds of their employees. Several large
companies bear the expenses of administration of the sick benefit funds; some
contribute from one-third to one-half of the funds; others provide for the
entire amount. A growing number of employers are providing for physical
examination and medical supervision.

These are but illustrations of a tendency on the part of many employers to
believe that provisions to aid sick employees and to prevent disease, even
though entailing the expenditure of large sums of money, are the part of
business sagacity. Significant indeed, therefore, are the questions asked by
Secretary Fred C. Schwedtman, of the National Association of Manufacturers, in
his preliminary report on sickness and unemployment insurance to the president
and directors of that organization:

Is not the prevention of occupational diseases the most important part of the
industrial disease problem and is not this question of prevention the
fundamental principle of all social legislation? This being so, could the
National Association of Manufacturers adopt a more constructive and more
efficient program than that of devoting its energy and ability to national
conservation by prevention of needless industrial human and economic waste?

Conditions for which the public is primarily responsible.—Conditions for which
the public is responsible may be defined as community conditions, or conditions
common to all classes of citizens. These have attracted so much attention
during the last decade or more in the discussion of the public health that it
is hardly necessary to include a description of these conditions beyond that
already given under the head of community environment.1 It is of interest to
note,

1 See p. 24.

however, that only within recent years has the conception of the extent of
these conditions become broader than that suggested by the term " nuisances ";
the recent development of public health activities has come to include the
treatment of any condition that causes disease, whether the disease affects the
individual citizen or the entire population. Most important among these
conditions, so far as they concern health, are housing, water supply, sewage
disposal, impure food, and exorbitant prices of foods, misuse and unrestricted
sale of drugs, insanitary state of streets, yards, private houses as well as of
public buildings, carriers, and the like.

As has already been pointed out in the foregoing pages, the multitude of
housing surveys in a large number of industrial centers have demonstrated the
harmful housing conditions under which wage earners and their families actually
live. The condition of congestion is, of course, one for which the public is
not altogether responsible, since the number of persons who live in a room or a
house is determined by their financial status, by their willingness to forego
present comfort and to risk their health in their desire for future competence,
and by their racial habits and solidarity. But lack of sewerage and water
facilities, improperly constructed homes—these are some of the things for which
the public is alone or very largely responsible, except in those industrial
villages and camps owned and governed entirely by employers. Inadequate
cleaning of streets, which are the playgrounds of the poor, improper methods of
sweeping public thoroughfares, the absence of proper protection of food
supplies, are some of the causes of disease among the wage-working population
the eradication of which is distinctly within the province of the public. The
relation of impure water to the spread of disease is thoroughly well known, and
the public's duty with regard to the healthful supply of water is recognized. A
similar recognition of public responsibility for a pure food supply and a cheap
food supply is becoming established. The public's duty in the education of
individuals in matters of health is no longer questioned.

Limitations upon responsibilities of employer and public.—If the causes of
sickness among wageworkers may be classified according to the responsibility
for their removal, it is logical to conclude that our present theories and
practices place certain natural limitations upon these responsibilities.

The most general limitation at present upon the responsibility of the public
grows out of conceptions of individual rights and the principle of private
property. According to this principle, the individual citizen is held to be
responsible for keeping the property he occupies in a condition which is not
harmful to his neighbors. It is true that the public, through its governmental
agencies, has in recent years shown a tendency to relieve the individual of
certain responsibilities. The tendency now, for example, is for the
municipality to pave and keep clean the street, whereas once the individual
property owner or occupant was held accountable. On the other hand, the
municipality forbids in many ways the keeping of insanitary premises and
expects the occupant to comply with the regulation. To state the limitation
upon the public's responsibility in very general terms, it may be said that the
responsibility of government lies chiefly in the enactment of health
regulations for the individual to obey, except where it is clearly evident that
it is best for the welfare of the public for government to step in and
accomplish specific purposes by other means. The greater part of the burden of
maintaining healthful conditions of living in the workingman's home thus rests
upon the workingman himself.

In the same way, there is a general limitation upon the responsibility of the
employer for the health of his employees. With certain exceptions, notably in
industrial villages and camps, where the employer, for all practical purposes,
occupies the position of the local government, the employer's responsibility
for safeguarding the health of the wageworkers is confined to places of work.
As a matter of better business, employers are coming to realize that it is
profitable to pay a living wage to all employees; but unless the whole
structure of our industrial system is reorganized we must assume that, with few
exceptions, the responsibility of the employer for the health of the worker is
naturally limited to the shop, the factory, and to places of employment in
general.

Even within these limitations both the public and the employer have far to go
before they do all that they can for the health of the wage earner. In spite of
notable progress made in certain States and municipalities, and by certain
employers, either of their own initiative or in obedience to regulatory
mandates, the fight for conditions promotive, instead of destructive, of health
has been and is still a hard one. After decades of unionism in certain trades
and prolonged and bitter industrial strifes in a large number of industries,
there to-day exist but a few instances where collective bargaining has resulted
in the establishment of clearly recognized standards of health and definitely
realized responsibilities.

Conditions for which the individual worker is responsible.—Because of the
limitations upon the activities of employers and of the public in providing for
sickness and preventing disease, the responsibility left to the individual is
great. It is of fundamental significance that the individual responsibility is
more difficult of fulfillment by the low-paid wage earner than by the
well-to-do. The realization of this difficulty is seen in several attempts on
the part of society to aid the wage earner in meeting his responsibility. There
are, for example, a large variety of movements which may be classified under
the somewhat vague name of "welfare work," including efforts to supply the
individual wage earner with the knowledge and the means to keep himself and his
family in good health; there are certain forms of commercial and mutual
sickness insurance plans; there are almost innumerable efforts of a
philanthropic and charitable nature, varying greatly in their scope, method,
and degree of success. Thus to the individual wage earner is largely left the
responsibility for the healthfulness of the conditions under which he and his
family live— his diet, the size and kind of house, clothing, heat, and the many
other elements that enter into what is included in the phrase "his standard of
living."

How far is he able to meet these responsibilities under present conditions?

INABILITY OF WAGE WORKER TO> MEET HIS RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTAINING HEALTH.

The wage and income investigations, to which reference has been made,l seem to
indicate that fully one-half of the people employed in the principal
manufacturing and mining industries have not been able in recent years to earn
an income sufficient to maintain a healthful standard of living. This fact is
of so grave importance, however, that it needs to be interpreted in more
concrete terms.

It is necessary to call attention to the well-known distinction made by
economists between money wages or money income and real wages or real income. -
One must guard against the error of assuming that because wages in the United
States are expressed in higher monetary figures they will purchase more of the
necessaries of life and make a more adequate provision for health than the
lower wages in other countries. The cost of living and of providing against
sickness in the United States must also be taken into consideration. The
adequacy of wages or income is measured not by the dollars and cents that make
up the weekly or monthly amount in the pay envelope, but by what the contents
of the envelope will purchase.

Adequacy of wage earner's family income to maintain health.—It seems to be
generally agreed that the minimum cost of maintaining a healthful standard of
living for a normal family of five persons— wage-earning father, wife, and
three dependent children—is about $800, present prices considered.2 In order to
avoid all possible exaggeration, let us place this minimum cost somewhere
within the range of $700 and $800. The sufficiency of this standard may best be
illustrated by the manner in which it has been found to be actually spent by
wage earners' families. The budgetary researches of recent years show
approximately the following disposition of the income of several thousand
typical wage earners' families, the annual family income being between $700 and
$800 and the average size of the family being five persons:1

1 See p. 34. * See p. 35.

Table 4.—Amount expended annually by typical wage-earners' families.

[table]

It must be evident that the average wageworker's family with an income of $750,
if it must spend $G50 on food, rent, clothing, and fuel and light, has very
little surplus available for extraordinary expenses. Out of the remaining $100
must come the funds for amusements and recreation, books, papers, and
magazines, lodge and union dues, benefit and insurance premiums, sickness,
upkeep of household and kitchen furnishings, and the hundred-and-one incidental
expenditures that are common even to the most frugal households. A death in the
family is a heavy expense; the birth of an additional member of the family is a
cause, not only of lessened family income in families where the wife is a wage
earner, but also of immediate expense and the promise of increasing cost in the
future. For we are speaking of the " average " family with an income of $700 to
$800 a year, which is considered adequate if everything "goes right." But
sometimes things " go wrong."

Investigations of a large number of representative workingmen's families have
shown that sickness causes considerable reductions in family income.2 These
investigations have also shown that the larger the number of dependent
children, the less is the amount available for providing healthful environment
and for sickness.8 In the period 1900-1913 the increase in the cost of living,
particularly in the cost of food and rent, has been an additional factor. It
tends to afFect most seriously the poorer families. Comparisons of wage and
retail food price statistics indicate that the increase in food prices during
the same period has been considerably greater than the increase in wages.1

> For references to budgetary sources, see p. 19. The above proportions have
been found to be approximately the same in all recent investigations of the
budgets of workingmens' families having the range of income noted.

> As already pointed out, a review of available statistics seems to warrant the
conclusion that ill health causes much of the unemployment of wageworkers. The
seriousness of this loss of working time and therefore of the loss of wages may
be illustrated by referring to the data obtained in the Federal Bureau of
Labor's investigation of over 25,000 heads of workingmen's families. Over 11
per cent of them were idle during the year on account of sickness alone, and
nearly 4 per cent more were idle during the year on account of sickness
combined with other causes. These breadwinners lost, on an average, nearly
eight weeks during the year on account of sickness and a much longer time
because of sickness combined with other causes. (Eighteenth Annual Report of
the United States Commissioner of Labor, p. 45.)

8 The Bureau of Labor's investigation referred to above secured data for over
11,000 families in which the husband was the wage-earning member, the mother
engaged in no remunerative occupation, and in which there were not more than
five dependent children and none over 14 years of age, no other dependent
members, and no boarders, lodgers, or servants. All of these families had
expenditures for rent, fuel and light, food, clothing, and sundries, and were
regarded as "normal" families. It was found that in families where there were
more than two children the annual surplus averaged less than $20, and in
families where there were five children there was an annual average deficit.
The statistics clearly showed that the larger the family, the less were the
expenditures for rent and "sundries," including health, and the greater were
the expenditures for clothing and food. Although it is obvious that the chances
of sickness and the need for preventing disease are greater in large than in
small families, the larger families were found to possess less financial
ability to make provisions for these contingencies and for these purposes.
(Ibid., pp. 90,572-577.) 1 See the discussion by I. M. Rubinow, chief
statistician Ocean Accident and Guarantee Corporation: The Recent Trend of Real
Wages, American Economic Review, December, 1914, pp. 793-817. The following
table of index numbers was used by Dr. Rubinow to compare the trend of wages
with that of prices, 100 being the average wages or prices from 1890 to 1899:

As the result of the marked increase in the cost of living, there is every
reason to believe that the low-paid, unskilled wage earner has been seriously
handicapped in his efforts to provide a healthful standard of living for his
family. He is less able to take advantage of voluntary insurance and
sick-benefit schemes provided by commercial companies, fraternal orders, and
unions. In times of sickness he is frequently forced to resort to free
treatment in public or private institutions.

A review of the facts, therefore, suggests the conclusion that the policy of
leaving to the low-paid wageworker so great a responsibility for providing for
sickness and for safeguarding the health of

[table]

Computation of index of real wages, 1900-1912.'

The food price statistics used by Dr. Rubinow in his computations are those
regularly published in the retail price bulletins of the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. The wage statistics are those regularly published by the Bureau of
Labor Statistics, and cover cotton goods, woolen goods, silk, boots and shoes,
knit goods, lumber, millwork, furniture, building trades, bakers, marble and
stone cutting, foundry and machine shops, and printing. Thus the tendency
toward exaggeration of the upward trend of wages is evident, since a large
number of purely skilled trades are included and many of the most extensive
unskilled and poorly paid industries are omitted.

himself and his family, as is left to him under present conditions, is putting
upon him a burden that he can not successfully carry. It expects of him that he
shall provide for almost certain contingencies of sickness in the future when
he lacks even the means of a healthful existence in the present. It assumes
that he, the least experienced in the methods of preserving health and the most
ignorant concerning the dangers of disease, will seek for himself the most
efficacious measures of prevention, and it does this after handicapping him and
his family with the accumulated burdens that the past indifference and mistakes
of society have placed upon him.

HANDICAPS OF THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.

In the face of such a problem as has been suggested in the foregoing pages,
modern methods of medicine and surgery and of hospital and home care of the
sick and the modern science of disease prevention are seriously hampered.

The wage earners and their families who are at an economic disadvantage in
obtaining healthful conditions of living are also at an economic disadvantage
in securing prompt and proper attention in times of sickness. Only as paupers
and at a loss of self-respect can this class of workers enter our hospitals and
our clinics and receive treatment. They constitute the "charity, patients" of
thousands of physicians who are often forced to make serious financial
sacrifices in order to uphold the ideals of their profession. Many wage
earners, too proud to ask for charity treatment, get either no treatment at
all, treatment too long delayed, or treatment of dubious value from quacks,
patent medicines, druggists, and ignorant midwives. The results of this lack of
treatment or improper treatment are that many die every year who could be
saved, untold numbers become permanently disabled and unable to work, their
wives become invalids from no care or from improper care during confinement,
and thousands of their children die within the first year from lack of
intelligent care.1

Whatever may be the causes of the situation, it can not be denied that the
physician is practicing among the wage-earning population in the United States
against heavy odds and that he will not be able to attain the greatest measure
of success in the relief of the sick and in the prevention of disease until
better organization and cooperation of all of those concerned in the
improvement of conditions are brought about.

1 The situation has been well expressed by Dr. Christopher Addison, of the
University of London. The State "confronts the medicinal profession," he said,
in referring to conditions in England, "with 600,000 ill-nourished children In
our elementary schools, with 300,000 who have adenoids, etc.; it deplores the
waste of infant life; it points to an army of factory girls and women workers
with anemia, chronic indigestion, etc.; and it is beginning to say to the
medical profession, 'We want these things altered. We want these people to be
healthier.'"

"The State, however," asserted Dr. Addison, "has no right to ask of any class
of men to do the Impossible." For "these anemic girls, these dyspeptic women,
are not to be put right by medicines alone. The hours they work, the conditions
they work under, are often also concerned, as well as their habits of life and
diet. It is useless to tell people to take proper food who have not the means
of obtaining it, and who often enough are paying what should be an economic
rent for a decent home, but are obtaining only tenement quarters without any
facilities for decent life."

NEED FOE MOKE EFFECTIVE METHOD OF DEALING WITH PROBLEM OF WAGE

From a survey of the factors that enter into the problem of the wage earner's
health and of the efficiency of the existing agencies at work for its solution
it is logical to conclude that a program of remedial effort is needed that will
better meet the situation. Such a conclusion is not unjust to the efforts that
are being made by employers, by the public through its various governmental
health agencies, by the workers' organizations, and by others. The activities
of each of these groups are circumscribed by the natural limitations of their
fields of work and service, as well as by other limitations. The need is for
some means of providing for and stimulating cooperative effort on the part of
all whereby these limitations may ultimately be removed and the worker's
ability to meet his own responsibility for health be increased.

Not only must such a program correlate and strengthen the efforts that are now
being made, but it must take into consideration as a basic fact that under
existing conditions a responsibility is placed upon the wage earner which he
can not be expected to meet. It must face the fact that destitution and
sickness go hand in hand. If such a program is to be adequate it must relieve
the worker of some of this responsibility, not only for his own good but for
the good of his employer and for the good of society in general. It must be
based on the cooperative action of those who are responsible for the conditions
that govern the health of the working population of the Nation. It must embody
democratic principles in its maintenance, control, and administration. It must
employ a practicable and just method of distributing the cost of sickness and
bring within the reach of modern medical science those who now can not enjoy
its benefits unless they are aided by private and public charity. It must
provide a more definite and a more powerful incentive to existing forces for
the prevention of ill health and disease.

IV. COOPERATIVE ACTION NEEDED FOR RELIEF AND PREVENTION OF SICKNESS.

This brief review of the prevalence and cost of sickness among the wage working
population indicates clearly the need for more comprehensive measures for the
relief and prevention of disease. The influence of industrial conditions, which
often increase sickness among employees, emphasizes the need for special
remedial measures which will be directly connected with industry^ The nature of
the responsibilities for disease-causing conditions among the industrial
population suggests that they are divided among three groups— employer,
employee, and public. With such division of responsibility and with each group
working independently, without coordination and often with duplication of
purposes and efforts, the best results can not be obtained. They can be
obtained only by the cooperation of the three responsible groups.

The experience of foreign countries indicates that a comprehensive governmental
system of health insurance will meet this need by securing cooperation of the
public, the employers, and the employees, and will give to each a continuous
stimulus for the prevention of sickness among the wage-earning population.

COOPERATION AMONG EMPLOYEES, EMPLOYEES, AND PUBLIC.

Cooperative or collective action is not new in the field of industry in this
country. Groups of people, once opponents in bitter disagreement and strife,
are gradually adopting the principle of cooperation. Instead of aggravating the
loss and waste that attend unnecessary conflict and of delaying the fulfillment
of aims common to all, they are coming to seek a basis on which a common
endeavor can be made. There is probably no more conspicuous example than the
trade agreement. In a number of industries the unions, the employers, and the
public are acting together in a way which is bringing prosperity to the
industries, a greater degree of satisfaction to the employees, and better
service to consumers. It was the recognition of the responsibility of all
concerned which laid the basis for the success of conciliation and arbitration
in the garment trades in New York City, as well as for the improvement of
sanitary conditions in the shops. The same view of the situation in railroad
disputes has prevented the trade paralysis of the country more than once. In
the pottery industry, as shown by testimony at the hearing of the Federal
Commission on Industrial Relations in Philadelphia,1 cooperative effort has
resulted in the maintenance of a joint health committee, composed of three
manufacturers and three workmen, which plans and enforces sanitary regulations
and satisfies the State commissioner of labor that bad conditions are
eliminated.

INSURANCE A METHOD OF COLLECTIVE OR COOPERATIVE ACTION.

Experience has shown that insurance is an efficient method of cooperation. As
defined by practically all authorities, insurance is primarily a method by
which a group of persons, each singly in danger of some loss the incidence of
which can not be exactly foreseen, can distribute such loss, when it occurs to
any of them, over the whole group and in such a way that the burden of expense
will be lightened of its most serious effects. Secondarily, and of equal
importance, insurance means that the strongest of incentives—that of lessening
cost—is given to efforts to diminish the frequency and the seriousness of
losses. In this latter sense insurance is a preventive measure of a positive
and direct sort.

1 Philadelphia hearings, Witness Hutchins, pp. 62-67.

Insurance as a preventive measure.—It can not be denied that fire insurance has
been one of the most potent factors in the now well-organized movement for the
prevention of fires. Marine insurance has resulted in more rigid inspection of
vessels, the erection of lighthouses, and in many other measures designed to
lessen the chance of wreck. Liability and compensation legislation—which is but
another name for the insurance of employees against accidents— has resulted in
the nation-wide movement for " safety first." Unemployment insurance systems
are so closely connected with labor exchanges that they have already shown
beneficial results in lessening irregularity of work wherever they have been
adopted. Health insurance in Germany, where it has been in operation for a
quarter of a century, has admittedly exercised a positive influence upon the
prevention of disease which is regarded as equal to, if indeed not more
important than, the distribution of money benefits and the treatment of
disease. Experience has shown in all instances that while the distribution of
cost is primarily the method, prevention is primarily the purpose of insurance,
and certainly its result.

GROWTH OF SOCIAL INSURANCE.

The adaptability of the insurance method in the solution of modern economic
problems is unmistakably shown in the spread of "social insurance" in countries
whose governments embody widely different political ideals. As soon as certain
economic risks have been recognized as menacing the wage worker and his family,
the insurance method of meeting the risks has been used. These economic risks
may be generally classified as those causing the death of the breadwinner in a
family, the physical inability of the breadwinner to perform labor, and his
inability to find employment. For a large proportion of the wage earners of any
country these risks are too great to be provided for by individual effort and
too little appreciated to be provided for even if the individual were able to
do so. Hence, social provision through the distribution of loss has been found
to be necessary. This kind of social provision has come to be known as "social
insurance."

44412°—16 4

The recognition for the need of provisions of this character has been followed
in every important modern industrial nation, with the exception of the United
States, by various systems of social insurance. Even in this country accident
insurance in the form of workmen's compensation is rapidly spreading.1 Accident
insurance for workers has been established by governments throughout Europe and
in many of the British colonies. Old-age insurance is established under
governmental authority and is subsidized by the Governments of Italy, Belgium,
Servia, and Spain, while old-age pension systems have been established by the
Governments of Great Britain, Denmark, Iceland, France, Australia, and New
Zealand. Unemployment insurance is a governmental system in Great Britain and
is rapidly being adopted in many European cities. Health insurance is probably
the most prevalent form of social insurance.

Growth of health insurance in Europe.—The extent to which European governments
have encouraged and provided for health insurance is a fact which has not been
fully appreciated in the United States. Voluntary health insurance systems have
been subsidized by the Governments of France, Belgium, Denmark, Sweden, and
Switzerland. But more significant as an evidence of the recognition of the
efficacy of health insurance is the fact that compulsory systems have been
established in Germany, Austria, Hungary, Norway, Great Britain, Servia,
Russia, Luxemburg, Roumania, France (for miners, seamen, and railway
employees), and Italy (for railway employees).

It is important to note that, while the growth of private and commercial health
insurance plans, which preceded in nearly all instances the other systems,
proved the great need of health insurance, subsidization by European
governments not only further showed the need for health insurance, but was an
admission that private systems had failed to meet the situation. According to
the experience in other countries as well as in the United States, private and
commercial health insurance has failed to afford the relief and lighten the
burden in the case of workers who stand in the greatest need. Subsidized health
insurance, experience has shown, has also failed to meet the situation, because
its good results are not universal. Voluntary health insurance, whether
subsidized or not, does not reach the low-paid workers, the very group who are
in the greatest need of protection. State systems of health insurance which
provide that all workers are entitled to benefits are the only systems which
have reached all groups and provided universal protection.

1 Workmen's compensation laws are now in force in 31 States and in Alaska and
Hawaii.

Growth of health insurance in the United States.—In this country we are in the
first stage in health insurance. No State, municipal, or other government in
any way provides for or aids health insurance. There are, however, large
numbers of private systems, such as mutual benefit associations and other
societies which provide for health insurance, in addition to various employers'
schemes which enable employees to have funds in times of sickness, trade union
benefits, and commercial insurance companies with health insurance policies.
These agencies may be classified as follows:

a. Trade unions: (1) National; (2) local.

6. Employers' organizations for benefit of employees: (1) Railroad funds; (2)
establishment funds.

c. Mutual societies: (1) Fraternal orders; (2) local lodges; (3) general
benefit societies; (4) special sick benefit funds.

d. Commercial companies operating for profit or on the mutual principle: (1)
Industrial insurance companies; (2) casualty companies doing industrial health
Insurance.

The number of individuals in these various forms of voluntary health insurance
plans can not be exactly estimated on account of the lack of sufficient data,
but the total will undoubtedly be far beyond casual approximations. Dr.
Rubinow, whose classification of the various health insurance agencies has been
given above in a modified form, made the following, estimates for 1907:

Table 5.—Sickness insurance for wage workers in the United States, 1907.

[table]

The estimated total expenditure for temporary disability was $4,480,000. "These
figures," comments Dr. Rubinow, " are not staggering if they are compared with
the 15,000,000 insured in Germany, nearly 25,000 funds, and expenditures of
$70,000,000 for sick benefits. They are not likely to look very hopeful when
compared with the nearly 20,000,000 persons engaged in manufactures, mechanical
pursuits, trade and transportation, and personal service "1 in the United
States. No estimate is made of the number of workingmen insured in other
organizations than those enumerated by Dr. Rubinow, but a considerable
proportion of workers are insured in funds operating especially among the
foreign-born and colored population. Some typical examples of such
organizations were reported by the Federal Immigration Commission.

11. M. Rubinow: Social Insurance, p. 292.

In one steel manufacturing town alone, that commission reported that there were
approximately 5,000 members of benefit societies out of something like 12,000
or 14,000 wage earners.

These fragmentary estimates and instances, however, indicate two important
facts:

First, that health insurance is more and more coming to be looked upon by
employees and employers alike as a practicable method of dealing with the
problem of the cost of sickness.

Second, that inasmuch as the cost of the insurance under the existing voluntary
plans in the United States is paid almost altogether by the employees, only
those who are able to afford to make the payments are in the position of
receiving the advantages that accrue.

In other words, so far as they are able, wageworkers are rapidly adopting
health insurance of their own accord. A constantly growing number of employers
are inaugurating establishment funds which are largely supported by their
employees. Commercial companies are finding their health policies more and more
popular in spite of the relatively heavy cost to wage-earning holders. The
features of these voluntary plans will be referred to in greater detail
elsewhere in this report; what is worth'emphasis here is the unmistakable
tendency on the part of all concerned—the worker as well as the employer, the
individual as well as the State—toward the adoption of the insurance principle
as the most practicable and the most efficient method of attacking the problem
of sickness. As Prof. Chamberlain has pointed out, health insurance is "
already an accomplished fact in the United States, but is insufficient in
amount and wrong in its methods and purposes. * * * Contribution of employers
is •already accepted in principle; cooperation of employer and employee is
established and growing. The question of sickness insurance is therefore a
problem of organization of existing forces and making use of existing resources
and admitted principles rather than the introduction of a dangerous novelty."1
Or, as Dr. Rubinbw has said, " a sickness insurance law, even in one State, can
do more to eradicate poverty, and is therefore a greater social gain, than a
dozen organizations for scientific philanthropy with their investigations,
their sermons on thrift, and their constant feverish hunt for liberal
contributions."2

1 Joseph P. Chamberlain: Address before the seventh annual meeting of the
American Association for Labor Legislation. December, 1913, American Labor
Legislation Review, Vol. IV, No. 1, March, 1914, p. 72.

2 I. M. Rublnow: Social Insurance, p. 297.

V. HEALTH INSURANCE: A HEALTH MEASURE.

Any system of health insurance for the United States or any State should at its
inception have prevention of sickness as one of its fundamental purposes. This
country should profit by the experience of European countries where, after a
long period of evolution, prevention is being recognized as the central idea
necessary if health insurance is to attain its greatest success in improving
the health and efficiency of the industrial population.

With the cooperative principle so generally recognized in industry and with the
application of insurance as a method for the relief of sickness among wage
earners so generally accepted in Europe and to some extent in America, the
question naturally suggests itself: Can health insurance be so developed and
coordinated with other agencies as to become an effective public-health measure
without imposing a new policy on this country which is not in accord with its
ideals and institutions?

Up to the present time, health insurance systems have not reached their highest
development as public-health measures because they have been adopted more as
methods for relief than for prevention of disease. It is true that in Germany
many evidences are found where prevention is beginning to be considered the
primary object. In Great Britain, with a few exceptions, health insurance is a
relief measure. In fact, it has had very little connection and has been poorly
coordinated with other health agencies. To obtain the highest degree of success
in America, it would appear that health insurance systems should be very
closely correlated with national, State, and local health agencies. If these
agencies are at present inadequate, they should be enlarged and strengthened
instead of attempting to create new and independent health agencies.

Without entering into a detailed description of the many health insurance
plans, it is necessary to summarize the important features in all and to
discuss their advantages and defects in order to point out the principles which
should be embodied in any system proposed for this country and to show how each
feature can be utilized to develop the greatest success in disease prevention.

BENEFITS.

The best-developed systems of health insurance provide for three kinds of
benefits to insured persons:

1. Cash payments to insured persons for disability due to sickness, to
nonindustrial accidents, and to childbearing by the beneficiary, for periods
extending as long as six months.

2. Cash payments for deaths of insured persons due to sickness or nonindustrial
accident sufficient in amount to cover funeral expenses.

3. Medical benefits to insured persons, which include adequate medical and
surgical care, medicines and appliances in home, hospital, sanatorium, or
physician's office, beginning usually with the first day of disability, whether
disability be due to sickness or nonindustrial accident or childbearing of
insured person or wife of insured person, for a period of six months unless
otherwise extended.

The benefits provided in existing plans in the United States, besides being
more expensive to the insured than those under European systems, are more
limited. There are practically no plans with cash and medical benefits
combined, and maternity benefits are seldom provided. The duration of the
benefits is in some cases limited to 13 weeks or less. The British national
insurance act does not provide a death or funeral benefit, and the omission of
this important provision resulted in the selling of death-benefit policies at
exorbitant rates by commercial insurance companies which, under the act, had
organized "approved societies" among their own policyholders for the purpose of
conducting health insurance according to the provisions of the national system.

EXTENSION OF HEALTH INSURANCE TO ALL WAGE EARNERS.

In the governmental cooperative systems of Great Britain and Germany all
workers in all industries and all occupations are insured and receive the
benefits. In the United States, on the other hand, those who need financial
assistance the most and who stand in the greatest need of better health
conditions are seldom insured. The advantages of health insurance are out of
the reach of practically all workers other than the highest paid, except in a
comparatively few industrial establishments where membership in the so-called
mutual sick-benefit funds is compulsory upon all employees and where oftentimes
the workers are restive under an administration of the funds which they feel to
be paternalistic. As a general rule, only those workers in this country who are
able to pay all of the cost of carrying insurance are able to obtain its
advantages, and the cost of operation of health insurance, especially in
commercial companies, necessitates a premium which contains a substantial
profit to the company and which can be afforded only by the better-paid wage
earner. The great mass of low-paid, unskilled workers are seldom found among
those insured in union, establishment, mutual society, and commercial insurance
company funds.

As constituted and practiced in the United States, therefore, health insurance
practically leaves the problem of the health among lowpaid wageworkers
untouched. It is not going too far to say that the situation in the United
States at present is not nearly so good as the situation in Great Britain prior
to the passage of the national insurance act. Even in Great Britain, where the
commercial and mutual health insurance organizations had probably reached a
greater development than in any other country, less than half of the wage
earners were benefited by them. This situation was described by Mr. David
Lloyd-George, in his well-known speech in the House of Commons in 1911, in the
following words:

What is the explanation that only a portion of the working classes have made
provision against sickness? Is it that they consider it not necessary? Quite
the reverse. In fact, those who stand most in need of it make up the bulk of
the uninsured. Why? Because very few can afford to pay premiums continuously
which enable a man to provide against these contingencies * * *. There are a
multitude of the working classes who can not spare that, and who ought not to
be asked to spare it, because it involves the deprivation of the children of
the necessities of life.

Prior to the passage of the national insurance act, thousands of
health-insurance policies lapsed every year in Great Britain among the
wage-earning policyholders, thus occasioning a real loss to them because they
found themselves unable to continue the policies until they received benefits.
No one will deny that the same thing has occurred and is occurring every year
in the United States. The reason for it is not hard to explain when it is
remembered that a very large proportion of workingmen's families are living on
a very narrow margin of subsistence; so narrow, in fact, that the continuous
payment of commercial insurance premiums is plainly impossible. The situation,
involved as it is in the entire question of disease prevention as well as of
the care of the sick, is of too much public importance to be left to commercial
organizations. It is essentially a public-health matter. Commercial companies
have served a useful purpose in providing health insurance for the better-paid
workers, but they have not reached and never can reach the lower-paid workers.

DISTRIBUTION OF COST AMONG EMPLOYEES, EMPLOYERS, AND PUBLIC.

In European health insurance systems the principle has been thoroughly
established that the cost of maintenance, or the total payments of premiums, is
shared by employers and employees and to some extent by governments. Under the
British National Insurance Act, employers pay three-ninths, employees
four-ninths, and the Government two-ninths of the contributions to the health
insurance fund for males. The proportion differs slightly for female insured
persons. In the German system of sickness insurance, as a general rule,
employers contribute one-third and employees two-thirds of the sickness
insurance fund, while the Government bears the expense of governmental
supervision. In some instances employers pay as much as one-half of the
premiums of their employees.

In this country, on the other hand, the burden of the cost of health insurance
is borne almost entirely by the wageworker. In consequence he is expected to
bear the expense of meeting a responsibility which is not wholly his, but which
should in part be shared by the public and the employer.

The employees' share.—It would be a serious error, however, for the cost of
health insurance to be borne entirely by employers or by employers and the
public. The employee should in no sense of the word be a ward. The expense of
maintenance should be divided as nearly as possible according to the degree of
responsibility, and it is but just that employees should pay the largest share,
as they do in European countries, in view of the consideration that they
receive the greatest direct benefits.

A governmental system of health insurance would hardly impose an additional
burden upon the insured persons. On the contrary, it would probably materially
reduce the amount they are now paying in medical bills and small life insurance
premiums. It appears from budgetary studies that workingmen's families spend
from 30 to 90 cents per week for health and small life insurance policies.1

The experience in European countries in health insurance systems in which
employers, employees, and the government are joint contributors, indicates that
under a similar system in this country the expenditure by employees of the
minimum amount (30 cents per week) stated above would provide not only adequate
medical care and a small life insurance policy, but also a substantial cash
payment during illness for a period not to exceed 26 weeks. A preliminary study
of existing systems in the United States indicates that a governmental system
could, at a weekly cost of 25 cents to the employee, 20 cents to the employer,
and 5 cents to the Government, or a total of 50 cents per insured person,
provide a minimum cash benefit for sickness of $7 a week for a maximum period
of 26 weeks and a death benefit of $100 in addition to medical and hospital
service. Thus the worker would have to pay only a small proportion of what he
is now spending on insurance and health, and at the same time he would receive
much greater benefits and obtain indirect results of an untold value from the
cooperative action of all agencies in the prevention of disease.

The employers'1 share.—There can hardly be any doubt that the employer should
bear a part of the expense of maintaining the healthinsurance fund of his
employees, not only because lie is responsible for many of the conditions that
govern the health of his employees, but because he reaps some of the important
results. It is an uncontradicted proposition that any measure that will
maintain the health of the worker is a positive benefit to the employer. In
fact, as already pointed out, there are some employers in the United States who
have recognized the truth of this principle to such an extent that they pay for
the entire cost of a sick fund for their employees. There are numbers of
employers who contribute varying proportions of their establishment funds. In
addition, many employers are paying considerable amounts in subscriptions to
charities and to the maintenance of free clinics and hospitals, and the like.
The establishment of a definite principle of sharing in the maintenance of the
health-insurance fund places all employers on an equal footing and compels all
to meet their obligations in a businesslike and democratic manner, and not on a
basis of charity or for the purposes of controlling or stabilizing their labor
supply.

irrhe Bureau of Labor's studies of the expenditures of 2,567 families In 1901,
carefully selected as representative, disclosed that 65.8 per cent of them had
expenditures for life insurance premiums averaging $29.55 per annum per family,
while 76.7 per cent had expenditures for sickness and death averaging $26.78
per family per annum. The intensive studies conducted in New York City by Prof.
Chapin showed that workingmen's families with annual incomes between $600 and
$999 spent from $26.83 to $47.01 a year for health and insurance. The insurance
amounted to little more than burial insurance, as only a very small number of
the policies were for more than $50 or $100.

The public's share.—The responsibility of the public has already been
emphasized, and its failure, under present conditions of publichealth work, to
discharge this responsibility toward the wage-earning population has been
pointed out. The sharing by the Government in the cost of maintaining the
health-insurance fund for wage earners will enable the public to meet its
responsibility in a more definite and direct manner. Judging from the heavy
burden the public already bears in its present inadequate efforts to meet its
responsibilities, it is safe to say that the American public, as a contributor
to healthinsurance funds, can perform its duties to wage earners at much lower
financial expense to itself and with infinitely less loss of selfrespect to the
wage earner than at present. The public has the right to be a contributor on
the ground that health insurance is a measure distinctly for its own welfare.
One-third of the " public" are wage earners. The immense sums that are already
being spent annually in public and private charities, in relief work, in caring
for the victims of the conditions that cause ill health suggest the
uneconomical and undemocratic nature of the methods now employed, as well as
the fact, which the public has come to realize, that it does have a real and
necessary responsibility to meet.

HEALTH INSURANCE AS A HEALTH MEASURE.

Financial incentive for lessening ill health.—Tne most successful
health-insurance systems of Europe are based upon the principle of joint
support of the fund by employers and employees, and to some extent by the
public. This cooperation does not stop with the financial support of the fund,
but extends to its control and administration. The evil of permitting
sick-benefit funds to be controlled by employers, while supported wholly or in
part by employees, does not prevail in European systems. Employers and
employees and Government are represented on the governing bodies, both national
and local, according to the proportions of their contribution, thus insuring
democracy in control and freeing the systems from any taint of " relief" or "
charity." The national health-insurance systems are governed by commissions on
which employers, employees, and the Government have representatives.
Regulations are made by these commissions, and the administration is carried on
by governmental officials in accordance with the policies and regulations thus
formulated. Even in local administration the joint-government principle is
applied in accordance with the proportions of contribution made by employees
and employers.

Aside from the value of bringing employer and employee together for a common
purpose, there is a specific advantage in the incentive afforded by financial
participation. The rate of payment of contributions or premiums in any trade,
industry, or locality should be determined by the amount of sickness in that
trade, industry, or locality. The lower the sick and death rates, the less
would be the premium necessary to provide for sick and other benefits. It is
reasonable to expect that when an establishment or trade finds that its premium
is much greater than in other establishments or trades an effort will be made
to find and remove the unhealthful conditions that cause the excessive rates.

It must be apparent, therefore, that there is thus afforded a strong
incentive—that of self-interest expressed in terms of money—for the employment
of measures to reduce the hazard of disease and thereby lessen the cost of
insurance. The employee will have in mind the saving made possible by reducing
the hazards of sickness so far as they are under his control, and he will be
stimulated to report cases of malingering or of insanitary conditions. The rate
of contribution paid by employers has been made large enough in the most
successful European systems to afford the employer the same sort of an
incentive to provide for sanitary conditions of work and to cooperate with
other agencies in removing the causes of disease among his employees. Since
contributions to health-insurance funds by national or local governments are in
the nature of a tax upon the public, there is afforded an additional stimulus
to public measures that reduce the cost of sickness. When a community suffers
from an excessive sick rate and taxes are increased in order to meet the
public's share in local insurance funds, the health of the wage earner will
become a local issue of much greater interest than it is at present.

Correlation of all health agencies.—The value of linking the healthinsurance
system with the health-promoting agencies is thus suggested. The principle of
joint support of the health-insurance fund has been found to supply a very
definite incentive to the prevention of disease. Should there not be an
intimate connection between the health-insurance system itself and the agencies
that promote health?

It is believed that this can be done in three ways: (1) By providing an
efficient staff of medical officers detailed from the Federal or State health
departments, but subject to the regulations issued by the commission; (2) by
providing a fair and sufficient incentive for the active cooperation of the
medical profession; and (3) by providing for a close cooperation of the
health-insurance system with State, municipal, and rural health departments and
boards.

Medical staff detailed from Federal or State health departments.— Without an
efficient medical staff closely related to the Federal or State health agencies
any system of health insurance will fail of its best results. Without such a
relation it would not be a health measure but merely a relief measure—a serious
mistake, as shown by the experience of European systems.

To provide such a medical staff the health departments would have to be greatly
enlarged and strengthened. The medical officers would have to be subject to the
regulations of the health-insurance commission, but at the same time should be
vested with all the authority of the health departments. In such a dual
capacity there could be no conflict, because their first duty in both
capacities—the prevention of disease—would be identical.

Cooperation with medical profession.—A proper correlation of health-insurance
systems with the medical profession is absolutely necessary, both to the
success of health insurance and to the effectiveness of the profession in its
legitimate field of service. The lack of this correlation in the German and
British systems has been a serious defect. The German Workmen's Insurance Code
provided that the local " Funds," which correspond to the British "approved
societies" and to trade union and mutual societies in the United States, should
administer the medical benefits. The results were that members of the "Funds"
were often restricted in their selection of physicians and that often
inefficient physicians were selected. Dissatisfaction was felt both by members
of the "Funds" and by members of the medical profession, in the latter case
attaining such proportions as to cause a "doctors' strike." The British
national insurance act attempted to avoid this defect by providing that the
local Government insurance committees should administer the medical benefits in
such a way as to allow the individual insured person to select any physician on
the "panel" or registered list. After considerable disagreement as to fees and
other details, a compromise was effected which resulted in the registration on
the "panels" of nearly all the physicians in each locality, and every insured
person could thus have his family doctor attend him and pass on his rights to
receive benefits from the sickness insurance fund. This situation, while
satisfactory to physician and insured person, caused a serious and improper
drain upon the fund by greatly increasing the number of malingerers, since the
family physician was entirely too complaisant in signing disability
certificates entitling his patients to benefits. To meet this defect medical
referees have been appointed in some localities to investigate and sign all
certificates of doubtful character. This plan of medical referees seems to have
proven successful wherever tried. If, as suggested above, a staff of medical
officers is provided, one of their first duties should be to act as medical
referees and provision should be made that no benefit be paid except on
certificate signed by them. It is not necessary to point out the possibilities
of disease prevention which may be expected by the visits into the home of
every sick beneficiary of a skilled sanitarian in addition to the attention of
the family physician.

The necessity for enlisting the active cooperation of the medical profession is
only too evident in the fact, which has been the subject of frequent comment,
that physicians should do more than they are doing at present for the
prevention of sickness. The freedom of choice of physicians on the part of
insured persons and the payment of the physicians on a capitation basis
regardless of whether their patients are sick or well should offer every
incentive to physicians to keep their patients well and to endeavor to please
by rendering their most efficient service. Furthermore, since the low-paid
wageworkers would no longer be on their list of charity patients, the
physicians' incomes would be increased and regularized. As there would be no
extra expense, the wage earner would seek the advice of his family physician
earlier and oftener in case of all ailments and thus aid the physician in
preventing serious diseases. The cooperation of physicians with agencies for
promoting healthful living and working conditions among wage earners would
widen their own field of interest in preventive medicine and practice.

Cooperation with local health agencies.—The third way in which a health
insurance system can be linked with the existing agencies of health promotion
is by the closer cooperation of the control and administration of the system
with local health departments and boards. The problem of the health of the wage
earner and his family is so intimately bound up with the general problems of
public health that the mistake of permitting local health departments and
boards and the health insurance system to operate independently of each other
is a vital one in hindering the success of disease prevention. This mistake has
been amply evidenced in the failure of the British health insurance system to
utilize the existing public health

agencies to a greater degree. With a staff of medical officers detailed from
the national or State health departments, as suggested above, cooperation with
local health authorities will be a natural result. In many localities it might
even prove practicable for the officer of the medical staff to serve as the
local health officer. Certainly the best results can be obtained only when
these two forces are coordinated.

Health, insurance a health-promoting agency in foreign countries.— Even under
the British national insurance act, with the defects noted above, there have
already been important developments. The last report of the National Health
Insurance Administration (for 1913-14) showed that the new system was "touching
nearly every field of human endeavor" and was " accumulating data of material
importance " " in solving social problems of reform." The operation of the act
has, for instance, induced physicians to locate in areas where the poverty of
the people had previously made medical practice impossible except on a charity
basis. Furthermore, the necessity for coordinating health agencies has already
led to a comprehensive scheme of cooperation of all forces, which before were
working independently, for the relief and prevention of tuberculosis. Under
this system, hospitals, sanatoria and dispensaries, visiting nurses, and home
treatment for tuberculosis have been brought together under the same
supervision, their efficiency increased, and their benefits greatly extended.
Many counties and county boroughs have adopted this comprehensive scheme.

It is in Germany, however, that the actual effects of the coordination of
health promoting agencies with health insurance are to be seen. There,
according to the consensus of observation and study of the workings of the
"sickness insurance" system, not only has each agency for the promotion of
health been rendered more efficient, but a stimulus has been given to the
entire health movement in the nation as a whole. The " sickness insurance''
system has stimulated and financially aided dispensaries and hospitals for
consumptives, dispensaries and clinics for infants, first-aid societies, school
doctors, day nurseries and care rooms for children, holiday colonies and forest
resorts, people's kitchens, milk depots, and agencies for combating alcoholism.

As Ministerialrat Friedrich Zahn has summed it up:1

By means of a carefully organized body of workingmen's insurance statistics,
which indicate the course, cause, and consequences of cases of sickness,
invalidity, and industrial accidents, the principal dangers which threaten the
life of the workman become known, and the manner in which these evils can be
most successfully attacked is made evident. There follows, in consequence, a
systematic campaign against tuberculosis, drunkenness, venereal diseases, the
lack of workingmen's dwellings, unemployment (guaranty of sufficient work to
preserve the claim to insurance by means of labor exchanges), schooling of the
workingmen and their families in social hygiene, enlightenment of the insured
by regular lectures, etc. This campaign is being carried on in part by
workingmen's insurance alone, in part in conjunction with organs of public
welfare. What we gain in this way is obvious. No more merely relieved sick,
injured, invalids, but persons sound in body and again capable to work. Where
in the past death occurred, life is now maintained; where formerly the man
became a cripple for life, he is now enabled to preserve the fuH use of his
limbs. Thousands who would otherwise be wholly or partially incapacitated now
become again industrially capable. The working population of to-day is much
less exposed to the dangers of sickness, invalidity, and accident, and seems to
possess greater powers of resistance; the coming generation is growing up
healthier and stronger from the beginning. With the improvement of the health
of the insured, there will be a postponement of Invalidity, if not entire
prevention of such disability. Other strata of population, too, are more
completely guaranteed against contagion and brought up to a higher standard of
health. This increase In vital power adds to the labor force and to the
creative powers of the individual and of the nation.

1 Workman's Insurance and Poor Relief in Germany, by Ministerialrat Dr.
Friedrich Zahn, Director of the Bavarian Royal Statistical Office, Munich,
Transactions of the Fifteenth International Congress of Hygiene and Demography,
Washington, 1912, Vol. VI, pp. 288-289.

MALINGERING.

While an evil which possibly can never be entirely eradicated and the
importance of which should not be minimized, malingering ought not to be
overestimated and used as an argument against the principle of health
insurance. The extent of malingering is determined by the efficiency of the
methods and regulations of health insurance designed to prevent it. In France
under the accident laws the employer is compelled to pay for time lost on
account of accidents and for the cost of medical treatment, while the employee
is allowed to choose his own physician. Under these provisions there has
resulted a combination of doctors and employees for mulcting employers.

Under the British system also, where medical referees were not provided and
employees were allowed to have their family physicians sign disability
certificates, the sick funds were cheated by malingerers. There can be little
doubt that such conditions encourage malingering, and the fact should be given
due consideration in framing health insurance laws and regulations. On the
other hand, the extent to which it is occurring should not be exaggerated as
has been done in the use of German morbidity statistics. For example, the
average number of days of sickness per insured member per annum was 5.89 days
in 1885 and 8.49 days in 1912. All of this increase has been attributed by some
to malingering, losing sight of the fact that the laws have been changed during
this period, extending the duration of the benefit from 13 to 26 weeks, that
many workers have come to a proper realization of the rights they have in the
funds, and that, with the advance of preventive medicine, medical benefits have
been greatly extended and convalescents now receive much more consideration
than in-former years.

It will hardly be denied that malingering in the United States is a great evil
under a large number of existing plans. In the so-called establishment funds in
this country, where practically all of the contributions to the funds are made
by employees and where the funds are controlled by employers, the employers
have little financial incentive to manage them in such a way as to lessen the
evil. On the contrary, it has been found that employers in some instances
manage the distribution of the benefits primarily to avoid friction with their
employees regardless of whether the cost to the employee is lessened or not.
Their employees, on the other hand, although supplying all or nearly all of the
contributions, regard the funds as employers' funds and too often feel that
malingering is a justifiable method of "getting back" what they have put in.
Even in the administration of trade-union and mutual-benefit funds, charitable
and friendly intentions on the part of those in charge of their administration
have been found to permit laxity in disbursing benefits, which, so far as the
cost is concerned, has the same effect as malingering.

Malingering, on the other hand, can be reduced to a minimum by well-directed
provisions for its prevention, if experience means anything at all. Under a
governmental system of health insurance, where employers, employees, and
Government contribute to the fund and control it, it is to the interest and
advantage of all to prevent malingering. A proper organization could be
provided whereby the employees would be stimulated to report malingering in
order to reduce their assessment. A system of medical referees, such as is made
possible under the revised British national insurance act, removes the
responsibility for signing disability certificates from the family physician
and places it in the hands of a disinterested medical officer of the
Government. The fact that the weekly cash benefit is materially less than the
weekly wage is another factor which would tend to prevent malingering.

INCORRECT PRINCIPLES EMPLOYED IN SICK-BENEFIT PLANS.

One of the serious grounds of complaints against so-called health insurance in
the United States is that insured workers are in danger of losing their
contributions because of discharge, change of employment, or lapsing of
membership in the organization maintaining the funds. This complaint is the
result of a fundamental defect frequently found in insurance methods as
employed in establishment, mutual, and union organizations, namely, that the
strictly insurance principle is confused with the investment or endowment
principle. Provisions for pensions, for example, which in principle are
investments, are often included in funds also providing for sickness and death
insurance, thus involving different kinds of risks. Again, it has been found
that some employers use funds contributed largely or wholly by their employees
for compensation for industrial accidents, for which employers are responsible
both in law and in fact. The pension and accident features are so different in
principle and in incidence of responsibility that they can not be included in a
health-insurance system unless the funds are carefully segregated. This has
been clearly recognized in European systems of health insurance, and it should
be so recognized in the United States. Its lack of recognition has led, in some
quarters, to unfair criticism of health insurance.

HEALTH INSURANCE IN RELATION TO RELIEF AND CHARITY WORK.

Health insurance not a charity measure.—Health insurance, in the real sense of
the term, is not relief or charity. This is a distinction of fundamental
importance. The cash and other benefits provided by health insurance are not
bestowed or given; they are paid for in accordance with actuarial practice by
those who are responsible for the conditions that occasion the need for
benefits. They are not "relief" any more than compensation for accidents is
"relief." Especially is this true in a governmental system of health insurance
where employers, employees, and public maintain and administer the funds. In
the first place, a system of this character is a public institution in which
each individual retains his rights as a citizen. In the second place, it is
cooperative in organization and the insured person has a share in control
proportionate to his contribution. In the third place, the beneficiary does not
receive the benefits as doles from charity givers, but because he has every
possible right to them. There is, on the other hand, every incentive given to
the worker to realize his independence and to become more self-reliant, because
he is afforded a greater degree of economic security.

A preventive of the need for charity.—Health insurance can not be regarded in
the light of a substitute for charity and relief work. The only sense in which
the benefits afforded by health insurance may be said to supplant charity and
the various forms of institutional relief is in the sense that they tend to
prevent charity by saving those workers who are on the margin of want from the
necessity of seeking relief in times of sickness. Health insurance will not
make workers out of already unemployable persons or take out of the poorhouses,
asylums, and other institutions the sick, the maimed, the idiots and imbeciles,
and the alcoholics. It will not create employment for those who are out of
work. But by providing adequate medical, hospital, and surgical care, by
affording funds during sickness, and by allowing a death benefit, health
insurance will prevent large numbers of workers from losing their economic
status and becoming unemployable. It will lessen the number of workers who are
now forced to sacrifice their self-respect, their independence, and their
self-reliance in appeals to charity.

"Ethical character of insurance?—Participation in support and control would
give to the insured persons a sense of ownership and responsibility which would
not only take away every element of charity but would educate them in
self-government and materially increase their value as citizens. Such seem to
have been the results in Germany, where a health insurance system has been in
operation for over 30 years. Referring to the " ethical character of
insurance," Ministerialrat Dr. Friedrich Zahn has thus described the results of
the development of such relations in Germany:l

Furthermore, the ethical character of insurance is not to be forgotten in this
connection. The workman is not obliged to ask for this assistance as he used to
beg for alms, thereby losing his social honor and certain civil rights. He can
demand this aid as a well-earned right, as compensation for the contributions
he has made and the services he has performed; he can demand it as a sort of
official pension. His personal independence thus suffers no diminution by the
acceptance of these insurance benefits. He retains all his civil rights. His
personal feelings and his social pride are not injured, but rather given new
strength. The legal guaranties of maintenace given him by workingmen's
insurance against sickness, invalidity, and old age place him in the class of
those who have. Furthermore, the schooling in self-government, which is gained
in the organization of insurance against sickness and invalidity, increases the
capacity and desire of the workingmen to do many things for their own welfare.

GOVERNMENTAL SYSTEM BEST.

Throughout the foregoing discussion of health insurance as an adequate method
of dealing with the problem of sickness among wage earners, reference has been
frequently made to the governmental systems in Europe, their defects pointed
out, and suggestions made for a governmental system suited to American ideals
and conditions. Some of the reasons for placing health insurance on a
governmental rather than private basis may be summarized briefly as follows:

First, the democratic character of an effective health insurance system is most
pronounced in a governmental system. The wage earner has a more real basis for
feeling that the benefits he receives

1 Workman's Insurance and Poor Relief In Germany, by Ministerialrat Dr.
Friedrich Zahn, Director of the Bavarian Royal Statistical Office. Munich.
Transactions of the Fifteenth International Congress of Hygiene and Demography,
Washington, 1912, Vol. VI,

PP. 288-289.

44412°—16—5

are rights to which he, as a citizen, is entitled. A governmental system
removes all trace of the taint of charity that so often accompanies employers'
welfare work and which might accompany a private plan supported in part by
employers.

Second, since the public would be represented in the support and control and
very largely in the administration of health insurance funds, the danger of
allowing it to be a football in disagreements between employers and employees
is lessened. It becomes a recognized governmental institution.

Third, certain features necessary to the success of health insurance which are
obnoxious to private health insurance plans—for example, compulsory
membership—are largely removed when health insurance is a public institution
and a governmental affair.

Fourth, experience has shown that there is a much higher degree of efficiency
in management, and at much less cost, in governmental than in private health
insurance plans. Health insurance in Europe has been provided at much less cost
in proportion to the benefits received than in this country. The necessity for
maintaining large reserves, providing profits, paying high-salaried officers,
soliciting agents, commissions, and general duplication of "overhead expense"
is done away with in a governmental system.

Fifth, the cooperation with public and other health-promoting agencies, which
has been pointed out to be so necessary for an effective system of health
insurance, is practically impossible in any system which is not governmental.

Sixth, it is a significant fact that the experience of European nations with
health insurance has shown governmental systems to be the only systems which
accomplish the purposes desired. In European countries in which private health
insurance plans existed, or in which there were private systems subsidized by
governments, the experience has been that discouragingly small enrollment in
membership resulted and that the workers who were on the border line of poverty
and in the greatest need of insurance were the very ones who did not insure.
Great Britain, when it adopted a system of health insurance in 1911, did not
subsidize private plans, as some of the European nations had done, but advanced
at one step to a highly developed form of a governmental system. Several other
nations which subsidized private insurance plans have abandoned that method and
have adopted a governmental system. At the last International Congress on
Social Insurance, the Italians, who had held out longer than any other European
nation against the principle of a governmental system, openly acknowledged
dependence upon private plans of health insurance to a be a mistaken policy.
Governmental health insurance systems have unquestionably come to be recognized
as the most satisfactory method of dealing with the problem of sickness among
wage earners.

Seventh, a governmental system of health insurance permits the use of a very
practical and efficient method of collecting funds through the taxing power of
government. The cost of administration is thus reduced, since already existing
machinery for collection can be employed and a less complicated and elaborate
organization of administration is necessary.

BASIC PRINCIPLES OF HEALTH INSURANCE ALREADT ESTABLISHED IN THE

UNITED STATES.

It must be clear from the foregoing that practically all of the basic
principles of health insurance are already recognized and practiced in the
United States, but not embodied in any one system or plan.

1. Health insurance, as a method of distributing the cost of sickness over a
group of individuals, has long been in use in trade-union, employers' and
establishment benefits, and mutual benefit organizations.

2. The compulsory principle that all members of a trade or industrial group of
individuals shall belong to a sick-benefit fund is familiar in both union and
employers' benefit organizations, and the objections that have been raised are
not against this principle, but against the undemocratic application of it in
certain instances.

3. Cooperation of employers and employees in joint contributions and in the
administration of benefit funds and in other measures for the betterment of
working conditions is too well known to need explanation here. Participation by
the public has been established in a number of instances, notably for the
purpose of defraying the cost of administering compensation laws.

4. Medical relief, death benefits, sick benefits, and hospital service are, of
course, familiar features of benefit schemes, although in few instances are all
of them provided in any one plan. The principle of maternity benefits is not
unknown in this country and is already receiving an impetus from mothers'
pensions.

5. Taxation by the Federal Government for benefits to employees has been in
operation for over a century in the maintenance of marine hospitals, and the
Federal Government has been a frequent contributor, in appropriations by
Congress, to the Marine Hospital Service. As early as July 16, 1798, Congress
enacted a law taxing all vessels of the United States merchant marine 20 cents
per month for every person employed on board, and providing for authority for
deducting this amount from the wages of such persons. This fund was
appropriated for the relief of sick and disabled seamen and constituted the
marine-hospital fund. The act was amended on June 29, 1870, by raising the
assessment to 40 cents per month and extending the benefits of the Marine
Hospital Service. In 1884 the capitation tax was repealed, a tonnage duty was
imposed on shipping, and provision was made for maintaining the Marine Hospital
Service out of the tonnage tax. The relief has been extended from time to time
until its beneficiaries include practically every person connected with the
United States merchant marine and the aids to navigation. The taxation of
industry by the Federal Government in a health-insurance system has been
thoroughly established.

A HEALTH INSURANCE SYSTEM FEASIBLE FOR THE UNITED STATES.

The conclusion appears warranted that a health insurance system for the United
States or for States, similar in general principles and in methods to the best
European systems, will not be so difficult nor so radical as some have thought.
In fact, such a system will not so much introduce ideas and principles and
practices new to this country as it will utilize existing plans and principles
in a more effective way. The tendencies toward collective effort for the
solution of social problems and toward cooperative action on the part of
employers and employees point the way in which these elements may be brought
together in a systematic manner and utilized for the promotion of the
wageworker's health. The existing agencies of health insurance in trade-union,
mutual benefit societies, and establishment sick benefit funds can be utilized,
just as they have been utilized in Great Britain and in European countries, in
a State or national system.

The real problem is thus one of organization. A m*re complete study of the.
economic and other factors that affect the health of the wage-working
population of the United States, and an examination of the medical benefits and
other details of health insurance systems abroad and methods and practices in
this country, will afford the data and the basis necessary for effective
enforcement of healthinsurance laws when enacted by State or Nation.

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS.

1. The fact that health insurance has been so generally adopted in European
countries as a solution of the problems of the wage earner's health suggests
its serious consideration in this country as a measure for the relief and
prevention of sickness.

2. At present each of the 30,000,000 wage earners in the United States,
according to available data, loses about nine days each year on account of
sickness. Estimating the loss in wages at $2 a day and the cost of medical
attention at $1 a day, the total loss to the wage earners of the nation is
approximately three-quarters of a billion dollars annually.

3. In addition to conditions which affect the health of the population as a
whole, some of the most important economic factors which increase the health
hazard of the wage-working population are: (a) Occupational hazards; (b) 
irregularity of employment; (c) unhealthful conditions of living; (d) 
employment of women under modern conditions of work, particularly of married
women; and (e) economic disadvantages at which a large proportion of
wageworkers (particularly the unskilled) and their families are placed as the
result of low wages and insufficient annual income.

4. Underlying all of the economic factors is the fact of poverty and the
partnership of poverty and disease.

5. Three groups—employers, the public, and employees—are responsible for
conditions causing sickness among wage earners and their families.

6. With few exceptions, the responsibility of employers for the health of
employees is limited to places of employment and working conditions.

7. The public is responsible for community conditions or conditions common to
all classes of citizens.

8. The greatest share of responsibility rests upon the individual wage earner.
Under present conditions a large proportion are unable to meet this
responsibility, especially the unskilled, low-paid workers.

9. The inability of the wage earner to meet the cost of sickness places a
serious handicap upon the medical profession in its efforts for the relief and
prevention of disease.

10. There is an increasing need for a more effective method of dealing with the
problem of the wage earner's health—one which will place the burden of
responsibility where it belongs and stimulate the cooperation of all concerned
in its solution.

11. Health insurance is the most feasible measure, because (a) it is a method
by which the cost of sickness is distributed among those responsible for
conditions causing sickness and whereby the burden upon the individual is
lightened, and (b) it gives a financial incentive, for the prevention of
sickness to those who are responsible for conditions causing sickness.

12. Health insurance in its most highly developed form (a) provides for
adequate cash and medical benefits to all wage earners in times of sickness;
(b) distributes the cost among employers, the public, and wage earners
according to their responsibilities; (c) becomes an effective health measure by
stimulating the cooperative effort of the three responsible groups and by
linking their efforts with those of national, State, and local health agencies;
(d) correlates all the forces at work in the prevention of disease; and (e) 
affords a better basis for the cooperation of the medical profession.

13. Under an efficient health-insurance system a contribution of approximately
50 cents per week per insured person (25 cents by employees, 20 cents by
employers, and 5 cents by Government) should enable the insured person to
receive (a) $7 per week when disabled on account of sickness or nonindustrial
accident for a period as long as 26 weeks in one year; (b) adequate medical and
surgical care during disability; (c) medical and surgical care of wife of
insured person during confinement; (d) a death benefit of $100. Budgetary
studies of large numbers of workingmen's families show that many workers pay as
high as 90 cents per week and receive little more than actual funeral expenses.

14. A governmental system of health insurance can be adapted to American
conditions, and when adapted will prove to be a health measure of extraordinary
value.

The fact that under such a system the employee has such a large measure of
ownership and control will remove all elements of paternalism. The employee
will then regard the benefits as rights, not charities.

Adequate medical relief will be placed within the reach of even the lowest-paid
worker and provide for him and his family during sickness.

It will give to those responsible for conditions causing sickness a financial
incentive to prevent disease.

Its administration must be closely coordinated with public-health agencies if
it is to attain the greatest degree of success as a preventive measure.

Appendix I.
BRITISH AND GERMAN HEALTH-INSURANCE SYSTEMS.

The principal features of the German and the British national health-insurance
systems are given in the following outlines, the chief points being arranged in
such a way as to facilitate comparison of the two systems:

The German sickness insurance system.—The German sickness insurance system has
been in operation since 1883, and may properly be considered as thoroughly
typical of the systems of social insurance in Europe. Its fundamental features,
as shown in the 1911 code, so far as they provided for sickness insurance, may
be outlined briefly as follows:

1. Insured persons:

(a) Members: All workmen, helpers, journeymen, apprentices, persons engaged in
home-working industries, and servants are compelled without regard to income to
be insured; all other persons employed and earning 2,500 marks ($595) a year or
less.

(6) Voluntary members: Any person whose income is 4,000 marks ($952) a year or
less.

2. Contributions to funds:

(a) By whom: Insured persons contribute two-thirds; employers contribute
one-third.

(6) The cost of supervision is borne by the Imperial and State Governments.

(c) There is no limit fixed for contributions by the law, but one is implied in
the statement that they may not be raised above 4i per cent of the basic wage
except under unusual conditions.

(<Z) Collections of contributions: Employers are held responsible for all
contributions of their employees, with the privilege of deducting the
employees* share from wages.

3. Benefits:

(a) The law specifically states that "the benefits are not public charities,'*
The rights to benefits begin with membership.

(6) Medical benefits include medical care, medicines, and appliances in home,
hospital, sanatorium, and office as required, but they are limited to 26 weeks
in one year. These benefits are administered by local societies, which contract
with one or more physicians and hospitals.

(c) Cash benefits: Beginning with the fourth day of disability, one-half the
basic wage is paid for each working day, not to exceed 26 weeks in one yearWhen
sent to hospital, the cash benefit is stopped unless it is required for support
of dependents.

{d) Maternity benefits: Benefits equal to the cash benefits described above are
provided for insured persons or wives of insured persons during confinement

71

for a period of 8 weeks, of which 6 must be after delivery, and may be extended
to 12 weeks if mother nurses child. The same cash benefits are provided for 6
weeks for disability incident to pregnancy.

(e) Funeral benefits: Benefit equal to 20 days' pay at the basic day wage.

4. Administration: In general, the whole system of social insurance, which
includes not only sickness insurance but also accident and invalidity, is
provided for in a single code.

(a) There is a governmental supervisory system consisting of (1) the imperial
insurance office; (2) the superior insurance office, for districts roughly
corresponding to our judicial districts, which may or may not include an entire
State; (3) the Local Insurance Office, for districts which roughly correspond
to our county or large city! This supervisory system is governmental, although
each of the three kinds of offices are composed of representatives of the
Government, the employers, and the employees.

(6) The actual administration of the funds is left to local organizations
called "funds," which are "local," "rural," "establishments," "guild," and
"miners." The membership of these "funds" is composed of the insured persons,
and the management is in the hands of directorates composed of one-third
employers and two-thirds insured persons.

(1) Whenever the employers contribute as much as one-half of the funds, they
are entitled to one-half representation in the directorate.

(2) Provision is made for federations of "funds" for the purposes of
establishment of hospitals, sanatoria, convalescent homes, and other purposes
to lessen overhead expenses.

The British system.—The British national insurance act was passed in 1911,
prior to which voluntary insurance systems were prevalent. The fundamental
features of the health-insurance system it provided may be outlined as follows:

1. Insured persons:

(a) Members—all persons 16 years of age and over who are employed, whether in
factory, on farm, in domestic service, or in any capacity whatever for which
wages are paid, without regard to income.

(B) Voluntary members—any person whose income is £160 ($778.64) a year, or
less, may insure if not over 65 years of age.

2. Contributions to funds:

(a) By whom: Insured persons contribute four-ninths; employers contribute
three-ninths; Parliament contributes two-ninths.

(b) In the case of females and persons employed at low rates of wages the
proportion of contributions by employers and Parliament is increased, and the
proportion paid by employees decreased, until in some cases the employees
contribute nothing.

(c) The cost of administration is borne by the entire fund.

(d) The limit fixed by law upon contributions: In no case can the employer be
compelled to pay more than 6d. (12 cents) per week per employee, nor the
employee be compelled to pay more than 4d. (8 cents) per week.

(e) Collection of contributions: By a system of stamps sold by the Government.

3. Benefits:

(a) The rights to benefits begin after 26 weekly payments have been made.

(&) Medical benefits include medical care, medicines, and appliances in home,
hospital, sanatorium, and physician's office as required. These benefits are
administered by the local government committee.

(o) Cash benefits: Beginning with the fourth day of disability, payments of a
sum of not more than 10s. ($2.43) a week, not to exceed 26 weeks in one year.

Disability benefits are paid at reduced rates for disability which continues
for over 26 weeks. When sent to hospital the cash benefit is stopped, unless it
Is required for support of dependents. «

(d) Maternity benefits: A maternity benefit of 30s. ($7.50) is paid in case of
confinement to the wife of an insured person. In the case of employed married
women the maternity benefit is paid in addition to the cash benefits.

(e) No funeral benefits are provided.

4. Administration. The British act does not provide for death benefits and the
administration is:

(0) National: This is of an executive, supervisory, and advisory character.

(1) National Insurance Commission, appointed by the Government; the number not
limited, but one member must be a medical practitioner; has power to make
regulations to govern all insurance administration.

(2) Advisory committee, appointed by the commission, composed of
representatives of employers' associations, "approved" societies of employees,
medical practitioners, and other persons, two of whom must be women.

(6) Local:

(1) Local insurance committees in each county or county borough composed of 40
to 80 members, three-fifths of whom represent insured persons, one-fifth
appointed by the council of the county or borough, of which two must be women,
from one to three medical practitioners, and the remainder appointed by the
National Commission. These committees administer the medical benefits, keep the
records, and promote measures for the prevention of disease.

(2) "Approved " societies: Any society or organization may be recognized as an
administrative agency if it conforms to certain requirements laid down by the
National Commission, and as an "approved society" administers sickness,
disability, and maternity benefits.

(3) "Deposit members" include those who are not members of approved societies;
sickness and other benefits for these members come from the postoffice fund,
and are administered by the local insurance committees. The provision for
"deposit members" is limited by the act to January, 1916.

Appendix II.
TYPICAL SICK-BENEFIT FUNDS IN THE UNITED STATES.

The principal features of three typical sick-benefit funds in the United States
(a mutual fund, an establishment fund, and a tradeunion fund) are given in the
following outlines, the chief points being arranged in such a way as to
facilitate comparison with the outlines of the German and British national
health-insurance systems (see Appendix I):

The Workingmeri's Sick and Death Benefit Fund of the United States of America.
—This fund was founded in 1884 for the purpose of providing benefit payments in
case of sickness and death and may be considered typical of its kind.

1. Insured persons: Any worklngman in good physical condition, able to read and
write English or German, and not under 18 or over 45 years of age, and their
wives and unmarried daughters not under the age of 18 or over 45.

2. Contributions to fund by entrance fees and assessments: (a) By all members.

(6) Entrance fee, $4 to $1, according to class, the first and second classes
consisting of males and the third class of females.

(c) Assessments: $1, 75 cents, and 25 cents, according to class, the number of
assessments per month to be fixed according to the number of cases of death and
sickness.

8. Benefits:

(0) The right to benefits begins on the first day of the month following
admission to membership.

(6) No medical or maternity benefits.

(c) Cash benefits begin with date of medical certificate:

(1) Sickness: To members of the first class, $9 a week for 40 weeks and $4.50
for 40 weeks thereafter; to members of the second class, $6 a week for 40 weeks
and $3 a week for 40 weeks thereafter. No sick benefits are paid to members of
the third class (women). No benefits are paid for more than 80 weeks during the
entire membership.

(2) Sickness certified by a physician; beneficiaries under control of visiting
committee and a physician and are examined weekly by the physician.

(d) Death benefits to beneficiaries of members of all classes not to exceed
$250, the right to benefit beginning on the first day of the month following
admission to membership.

(e) Forfeitures: For nonpayment of dues, fraud, drinking alcoholic liquors
while on sick list, and for several minor reasons.

4. Administration: The administration of the fund rests finally with the
national board.

(a) National: Officers, together wtih a board of directors, elected annually by
ballot. The board fixes the dues and decides all appeals.

(6) Local: Local organization includes a board and other officers for the local
administration. Appeals from local organizations may be taken to the national
board.

A Typical Railroad Fund.—This fund has been in operation for over 35 years. Its
main features are as follows:

1. Insured persons: The plan is compulsory for all except a very few classes of
employees. Over 90 per cent of all employees are included in the compulsory
classes.

2. Contributions to fund:

(a) By whom: Employees contribute, according to income, from 75 cents to $5 per
month. The company guarantees the fund and pays a sum equal to about 50 per
cent of the expenses of administration.

(6) Contributions of employees are deducted from pay roll for each month ia
advance.

3. Benefits:

(a) The rights to benefits begin after six months' employment. (6) No medical
benefits.

(c) Cash benefits:

(1) Accident benefits begin with first day of disability, 50 cents to $2.50 per
day (not including Sundays), according to contribution, for the first 52 weeks,
and half the above benefits for the second 52 weeks.

(2) Sickness benefits begin after the first week of disability, 50 cents to
$2.50 per day (not including Sundays), according to contribution, for the first
52 weeks, and half the above benefits for the second 52 weeks.

(3) The certificate of disability in case of accident or sickness must be
signed by the medical officer of the company.

(d) Funeral benefits:

(1) Accidental death—$500 to $2,500, according to contribution.

(2) Death due to sickness—$250 to $1,250, according to contribution.

(c) Forfeitures: The right to all benefits, except death benefits, in cases of
death due to sickness is forfeited on leaving employment of company and in all
cases where suit is brought against the company by beneficiary.

4. Administration: Is in the hands of the company and of an operating and an
advisory committee, which is composed of representatives of company and
employees.

(a) Executive: The company assumes general charge of the fund, the president of
the railway appointing the executive- officers.

(6) Advisory committee, composed of general manager of railway and 12 members
elected by employees, has advisory functions and hears appeals which may be
appealed to operating committee.

(c) Operating committee, composed of three members appointed by railway
president and three members elected by employees, makes regulations subject to
the approval of the railway president and board of directors, and hears all
appeals from superintendent of the fund and the advisory committee, its
decisions being final.

The Boot and Shoe "Workers' Union.—This union, organized in 1895, inaugurated
temporary disability and death benefits in 1900.

1. Insured persons: Includes all members of the union.

2. Contributions to funds: Are to the general union fund for all purposes.

(a) By all members of union.

(6) One-third of all receipts is paid into the benefit fund until It equals $1
per member.

(c) $2.32 was paid per member for disability benefits in 1913.

3. Benefits:

(a) The rights to benefits begin after six months' membership in union. (6) No
medical or maternity benefits.

(c) Cash benefits:

(1) Temporary disability (sickness) begin after the first week of disability,
$5 per week for 13 weeks in any one year.

(2) Disability certified by a committee of three members of union.

(d) Death benefits according to length of membership, $25 to $100.

(e) Forfeitures: The right to all benefits is forfeited by forfeiture of
membership in the union.

4. Administration: The funds of the union are administered by the general
executive board of the union and eight other members.

Appendix III.
HEALTH-INSURANCE STANDARDS.

[Recommended by the Committee on Social Insurance, American Association for
Labor

Legislation. ]

After many conferences for discussion and revision of proposals, the committee
on social insurance of the American Association for Labor Legislation
formulated in the summer of 1914 a tentative statement of the essential lines
which it purposes to follow in the drafting of a health-insurance bill. The
statement was as follows:

1. To be effective health insurance should be compulsory, on the basis of joint
contributions of employer and employee and the public.

2. The compulsory insurance should include all wageworkers earning less than a
given annual sum, where employed with sufficient regularity to make it
practicable to compute and collect assessments. , Casual and home workers
should, as far as practicable, be included within the plan and scope of a
compulsory system.

3. There should be a voluntary supplementary system for groups of persons
(wageworkers or others) who for practical reasons are kept out of the
compulsory system.

4. Health insurance should provide for a specified period only, provisionally
set at 26 weeks (one-half a year), but a system of invalidity insurance should
be combined with health insurance so that all disability due to disease will be
taken care of in one law, although the funds should be separate.

5. Health insurance on the compulsory plan should be carried by mutual local
funds jointly managed by employers and employees under public supervision. In
large cities such locals may be organized by trades with a federated bureau for
the medical relief. Establishment funds and existing mutual sick funds may be
permitted to carry the insurance where their existence does not injure the
local funds, but they must be under strict government supervision.

6. Invalidity insurance should be carried by funds covering a larger
geographical area comprising the districts of a number of local health
insurance funds. The administration of the invalidity fund should be intimately
associated with that of the local health funds and on a representative basis.

7. Both health and invalidity insurance should include medical service,
supplies, necessary nursing, and hospital care. Such provisions should be
thoroughly adequate, but its organization may be left to the local societies
under strict governmental control.

8. Cash benefits should be provided by both invalidity and health insurance for
the insured or his dependents during such disability.

9. It is highly desirable that prevention may be emphasized so th'at the
introduction of a compulsory health and invalidity insurance system shall lead
to a campaign of health conservation similar to the safety movement resulting
from workmen's compensation.

77

Appendix IV.
RECOMMENDATIONS AS TO HEALTH INSURANCE.

[From the staff report to the United States Commission on Industrial
Relations.1]

It is suggested that the commission recommend a Federal system of sickness
insurance, constructed along the lines here briefly summarized:

1. Membership: The membership shall comprise all employees of persons, firms,
companies, and corporations engaged in interstate commerce, or whose products
are transported in interstate commerce, or which may do business in two or more
States, the employees of intrastate establishments to be permitted to be
insured, if they so elect, under regulations to be prescribed by the
commission.

2. Fund: The fund is to be created by joint contributions by employees,
employers, and the Government, the last named sufficient for expenses of
administration. Such contributions should probably be in the proportion of 50
per cent from workers, 40 per cent from employers, and 10 per cent from the
Government. Individuals or groups desiring larger benefits may arrange to make
larger payments, and the rate in any trade, industry, or locality may be
reduced where conditions so improve as to make a lower rate adequate. The
contributions are to be secured through taxing each interstate employer a
certain amount weekly for each employee, the part contributed by workers to be
deducted from their wages, thus using the regular revenue machinery of the
Government.

3. Benefits: Benefits to be available for a limited period in the form of cash
and medical benefits during sickness, nonindustrial accidents, and
childbearing; death benefits to be of limited size and payable on presentation
of proper evidence.

4. Administration: The administration of the insurance funds is to be carried
out by a national sickness insurance commission. The national commission should
be composed, by presidential appointment with Senate confirmation, of a
director (who would be chairman), representatives of employers and
representatives of employees in equal ratio, and, as ex officio nonvoting
members, the Federal Commissioner of Labor Statistics and the Surgeon General
of the Public Health Service. The commission should be empowered to supervise
all funds and determine their character and limits of jurisdiction; promulgate
all regulations necessary to enforce the act; establish and maintain hospitals;
maintain staffs of medical examiners, specialists, dentists, and visiting
nurses; provide for medicines and appliances; make contracts with local
physicians; cooperate with local funds and health authorities in disease
prevention; and provide for collecting actuarial data.

1 Final Report of the Commission on Industrial Relations, 1915, pp. 206—207.

Correlation of the insurance system with the medical profession, the lack of
which has been a serious defect in German and British systems, is absolutely
necessary. Contracts with physicians should allow to each a per capita payment
for the insured persons under his care, the right of selection of physician to
be retained by the insured. For the signing of certificates entitling the
insured to benefits and for treating the insured in hospitals the Surgeon
General should detail physicians from the Public Health Service, their entire
time to be given to these and other duties (consulting with local physicians,
enforcing Federal laws and regulations, and cooperating with local
authorities).

o

[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic][ocr errors]
