[graphic]
[merged small][graphic][merged small]
[ocr errors]
[graphic]

AND

Some Economics:

A CYCLOPEDIA OF FACTS AND HINTS FOR ALL
DEPARTMENTS OF HOME LIFE, HEALTH,
AND DOMESTIC ECONOMY.

f

BY C. H. FOWLER, D.D., LL.D.,

I

AND

W. H. DE PUY, A.M., D.D.

NEW YORK:
PHILLIPS & HUNT.
1880.

Copyright 1879, by
Phililjips dt PIUWT,
New York,

It.

DEDICATION.

vVe dedicate this book to those who have done much for us, and to rhose for
whom we hope to do something in the future, namely:—

1. To our Motheks, who made the homes into which we were received.

2. To our Wives, who make the homes in which we live.

3. To our Daughters, who are to make the homes for other toilers.

5. To our Readers, who have kindly followed our pens in the past, and who may
follow them in the future.

5. To those who have good homes and to those who need them.

The Authors,

The first sure symptoms of a mind in health,
Is rest of heart, and pleasure felt at home.

—Youngs' Night Thoughts.

Home is the resort
Of love, of joy, of peace, and plenty, where,
Supporting, and supported, polished friends
And dear relations mingle into bliss.

—Thompson's Seasons.

Look to your health, and if you have it, praise God, and value it next to a
good conscience. For health is the second blessing that we mortals aro capable
of—a blessing that money cannot buy. Value it.

Surround the sick man with the pomp of kings; let his chair be a throne, and
his crutch a scepter; he will look with contemptuous eye on marble, on gold,
and on purple, and would deem himself happy could he enjoy, even under thatched
roof, the health of the meanest of his subjects.—Zschokke.

The fireside is a seminary of infinite importance. Few can receive the honors
of a college, but all are graduates of the home. The learning of the university
may fade from the recollection, its classic lore may molder in the halls of
memory; but the simple lessons of home, enameled upon the heart of childhood,
defy the rust of years, and outlive the more mature, but less vivid, pictures
of after years.—Goodrich.

I will not, therefore, believe that what is so natural in the house of another
is impossible at home; but maintain, without fear, that all the courtesies of
social life may be upheld in domestic societies. A husband as willing to be
pleased at home, and as anxious to please as in his neighbor's house; and a
wife as intent on making things comfortable every day to her family as on set
days to her guests, could not fail to make their own home happy.—Phillip.

PREFACE.

This volume has been prepared for a given purpose. The supreme end sought in it
is usefulness. It is a book of practical knowledge. No space has been given to
rhetoric. The greatest amount of information in the smallest space has been our
ever-present ideal.

The preparation of these pages has been a constant delight. The privilege of
putting so many hundred important suggestions into a hundred thousand homes, to
enter into the convictions and manners and lives and destinies of so many young
people, and bear the fruit of peace and comfort and gentleness and culture in a
million homes of the future, is gratefully accepted as the opportunity of a
Kfe-time.

AUTHORITIES CONSULTED.*

Sand-Book for Home Improvement.

The Housekeeper's Manual. By Catherine E. Beecher and Harriet Beecher Stowe.

lift at Home. By Rev. Wm. Aikman, D.D.

Half-Hour Studies of Life. By Rev. E. A. Johnson, D.D.

The Art of Conversation.

Hill's Manual of Social and Business Forms.

The American Journal of the Medical Societies. Philadelphia.

Medical and Surgical Reporter. Philadelphia.

The Sanitarian, and Organ of the Medico-Legal Society. New York.
Popular Science Monthly. New York : D. Appleton 4; Company.
Appleton's Journal. New York : D. Appleton & Company.
New Jersey Eclectic, Medical, and Surgical Journal. Newark, N. J.
American Agriculturist. New York: Orange Judd Company.
Phrenological Journal, and Journal of Health. New York: S. R. Wells &
Company.

Herald of Health. New York: Wood & Holbrook, Publishers.
The Lancet. London, England.

New York Eclectic Medical and Surgical Journal. Edward N. Fishblatt, M.D.

American Journal of Microscopy. New York.
HalVs Journal of Health. New Yotk.

Report of Special Committee on Croup of the Illinois State Medical Society,
1878. H. L. Gill, M.D. <

Till the Doctor Comes. By Geo. M. Hope, D.D. New York: G. P. Putnam tf Sons.

Steele's Fourteen Weeks in Physiology. New York: A. S. Barnes & Company.

We also add, as helpful to us, the names of Rev. L. D. Barrows, D.D., and Rev.
Jqlm Wesley, A.M.

• Partial Pat .

GENERAL TOPICS.

PART I

Home II

Marriage. 13

How to Perpetuate the Honeymoon 16

How to be a Good Husband I7

How to be a Good Wife 20

Facts for Parents 28

Family Government—Forty-two Hints. 24

Suggestions to Children 28

Members «.f the Family 29

Servants In the Family 80

Hints to Employers 81

Mistress In the Family * . 32

Superiors and Inferiors 82

Training Children for Given Ends 83

Choosing a Calling 84

How to Conduct Family Prayer 85

Graco at the Table 36

HOME.

riai

How to Profit by Habit 86

Hints and Helps In Conversation 87

Good Manners ... 41

Table Manners 42

Church Manners 46

Introductions —How to Give them 46

Salutations—How to Make theua 47

Receptions—Best Methods 47

Visits and Calls 4S

Hosts and Guests 50

Weddings 58

Funerals ( 54

Important Rules of Conduct 55

It is Polite 55

Amusements—Their Importance 58

Home Entertainment 58

How and What to Read 60

PART II.

rial

Health and Home 62

Choosing a Physician 64

Prevention of Disease 67

The Blood—Its Relation to Life and

Health 69

Food and Health "6

Hints about Healthful Eating 83

Food for the Sick 87

Water—Its Relation to Health 93

Ice-Water and Health 96

Summer Beverages 98

HEALTH.

* PAGE

Tea and Coffee and Health 101

The Air wo Breathe 110

Disinfectants 120

Sunlight and Health 127

Care of the Eyes 134

Care of the Ear 142

Care of the Nose 145

Care of the Teeth 147

Care of the Hair 152

Care of the Feet 156

Care of die Skin 160

[merged small][ocr errors][merged small][merged small][merged small][merged
small]

Home And Health.

HOME.

Only Mail has a Home.—The tired lark sinks in the evening shades down to its
quiet nest, and offers its grateful anthems for the boon of a house; but man,
wearied with the strifes of the mart and of the field, seeks shelter in his
home, the sacred retreat of the heart. Foxes have holes, birds have nests,
lions have dens, tigers have lairs, dogs have kennels, but men have homes. The
supreme putting of divine love is found in Jesus, when he forsakes his home,
and wanders a stranger, not having where to lay his head; while the extreme
display of human sinfulness is found with those human creatures who are
"without natural affections."

Virtues of the Hearth are the Securities of the Peoples.—The home is the cradle
of the great virtues. The Church was organized in the family. The power to
command his household and his children after him was the spring of Abraham's
call to be the Father of the faithful and founder of the Church. There is one
bond that encircles earth and heaven. It is woven from the most tender longings
and hunger of the heart. It binds the humblest home on earth to the Home of our
Father on High. It domesticates the angels in cabins. The love of mother is
often the last cable that holds a youth to his moorings. Beaten upon by the
storm of his passions, every other stay gives way. Every other anchor drags.
But the love of mother, that was dropped deep into his soul's substance before
he got out of the nursery, holds. While that holds he is almost certain to
outride the wildest gales. So the Home, which is the sanctuary where this
spirit presides, is a perpetual protection. It is an ark floating with us down
the tide of the years. It carries the virtues that make the citizen, and the
inspirations that develops the saint. It is not merely a shelter from the
storm, it is also a workshop, where the grandest characters are built. It is a
preeminent opportunity for the achievement of good. To miss this chief purpose
of the home is to lower its grade.

The Home builds the House.—The divine idea of home-life types the building.
There is something in every germ of life which determines its form. Time and
opportunity bring out only this ideal. The germ of a kernel of barley can be
matured, not into a stalk and head of wheat, but into a stalk and head of
barley. The germs of the fish and of the bird and of man are, at certain stages
of development, indistinguishable. But there is always present a superintending
spiritual power, too subtle for our microscopes and chemistries, that
determines what form each shall wear. The fish grows into a fish. The bird
becomes a bird. The man matures into a man. Each obeys its inner bias. Thus the
inner instinct, or thought of the home, fashions the house. Its apartments grow
upon this stalk. From the kitchen where the animal is fed, the nursery where
the training is ordered, the chamber where the recuperative forces are stored,
the sitting room where the social life is nourished, to the reception room or
parlor, where the life of society is met and mastered—all these grow about the
deeper idea of home. It is this subtle and powerful spirit, born out of the
innermost heart, that invariably locates the home where the heart is. The
settler's cabin and the peasant's hut, clothed with this inspiration from the
heart, become centers of comfort and contentment that time is unable to drive
from the mind. Life rises out of this inspiration to its highest values. Thus
the home becomes the measure of a nation's stability. A tramp may become a
hired soldier, but he can hardly rise to the promptings of patriotism. His life
has too little in it to be worth much defending. His life is cheap. He waits
for whatever may happen. When a man has a home he becomes immediately
interested in the peace of the community. He has given hostages against mobs.
It is important for him that the pavement stones should keep their places, and
not go flying through the air. Both heads and windows acquire a sacredness from
those in which he is interested. A man without a home has little motive for
standing against public perils. If a land does not furnish a man so much as a
home, he can drift away when it becomes dangerous to remain anchored, Fill any
land with good homes, and it must be a good place in which to live. It is one
peculiarity of the Anglo-Saxon peoples that they abound in homes. The walls
about the hearth shut out all the world, and shut in a kingdom. This is the
fort; keep it clean and free, and religion will thrive and liberty will dwell
in the land forever.

The Origin of the Family.—The most ancient organization in the race is the
Family. It was God's first appointment for man. Other means might easily have
been devised for the perpetuation of the race, but God saw that it was "not
good that the man should be alone," so he put "the solitary in families."

How the Family Develops Character.—The family is the oldest school known among
men. Its molding and educating work begins in that university where the
mother's lap is the recitation room, the mother is the professor, and the
mother's eye is the text-book. Schools come as public examinations, to
determine or show how much the pupil has learned elsewhere. The Church is an
after-thought. The family furnishes the elements out of which later character
and knowledge are constructed. Other means of influence and instruction touch
the soul in spots, but the family furnishes an enveloping atmosphere, that
presses upon the absorbing faculties at every point and through every moment.
It is too easy to trace family marks through successive generations. Blood runs
in channels prepared by nature, but these channels may be reversed or broken
over. A given amount of capacity, that is, so much blood and so much brain, may
be brought by opposite environments to results as widely separated as the
opposite poles of the moral universe. The man with a brogue in his speech, and
a club in his hand, and a low passion in his heart, may differ from the
statesman with a richness in his accents, and the reins of government in his
hands, and a universal philanthropy in his heart, only by so much as the
influences of the family in which his capacities were surrounded.

The Family often Ripens Rapidly Those who Carry its Burdens.—

Two young people fall into the conviction of approaching oneness. They seem but
children. He is trifling, and she is foolish. He divides his time between his
old boyish sports and his new boyish love. She turns from her dolls to her
lover. They are children, and too young to be thought of as marriageable. But
in the courage or folly of their love they take the outer vow. Now watch them.
Often they have blundered, but nearly always, when the union was a marriage
performed under the sanctions of their hearts, we see them straighten up and
sober down. They cease suddenly to be children. We wonder at their dignity and
stability. We trembled when they passed into the cloud. But they are clothed
upon with higher character. It seems as if nature, fearing lest she should
disparage her divinest ordinance, hastens to forgive the folly of premature
obedience, and corrects, as far as possible, the mistakes of youth.

The Family Multiplies Happiness.—The road into happiness is always the road out
of self. When one has no one for whom he cares more than for himself, the cup
of his happiness is very small . The babe, only able to use a rattle, can have
but little joy compared with its delight when it can pour itself out for some
loved one. Other friendships than those of the family last with the sunshine.
But into every life some rain must fall. Then, worn with the rude shocks
against the rough world, one returns to his quiet family to be soothed and
re-established in the eternal verities of fidelity and integrity. The comforts
may be few, but so long as these are not placed above their true rank, and the
deeper and abiding realities of the heart are emphasized, there is sure to come
a flood of comfort that makes one ready for another strife with the world.

Washington Irving says that "a married man, falling into misfortunes, is more
apt to retrieve his situation in the world than a single one, chiefly because
his spirits are softened and relieved by domestic endearment and selfrespect."
The happiness he imparts and receives adds wings to his speed and spurs to his
purpose, and difficulties that otherwise would have been too great for a
half-formed resolution yield before the supreme impulse from the family.

The Family Blesses in Necessitating Housekeeping.—It is one of

the glories of a family that it must come to housekeeping. Boarding is a
necessary evil in exceptional cases, but it is not a part of the plan. It may
sometimes be an expedient, like a tent, while a house is being built, or on
hard campaigns where houses cannot be built. The order of life is home-keeping.
A family is a unit in society, not a fraction. The home is a man's castle, and
he must be the lord of it. To live in a trunk with the feeling that some one
else owns the key, and may lock you out by day or in by night, dwarfs the best
part of a man's faculties. Boarding houses have their mission, just as any
other remedial agency for the sick or deformed or unfortunate in society has
its work. People should go to a boarding house just as they do to a hospital,
when they mutt, and then be thankful that they can get a good one.

Housekeeping separates the family unit from the fragments of families, and
gives it a chance for religious and individual life. The little girl who said
to her Sunday-school teacher, "We have not got any Bible, we board," told a
secret much deeper than she knew.

Have some house, little if it must be, but have it, and live by yourselves.
There you can suit your living to your income. There you can train your
children in influences which you can command. There you can create and preserve
a Christian atmosphere which shall determine their destiny, and possibly your
own. There you will find a fort which you command, a door which you only can
open; a place where you are constantly built up into kingship.

According to Jeremy Taylor: "Home is the proper scene of piety and patience, of
the duty of parents, and the charity of relatives; here kindness is spread
abroad, and love is united and made firm as a center. Marriage hath in it less
of beauty, but more of safety than single life; it hath more care, but less
danger; it is more merry and more sad; it is fuller of sorrows and fuller of
joys; it lies under more burdens, but is supported by all the strength of love
and charity, and those burdens are delightful." The family gathered in a
Christian home is the type of the eternal home where the whole family of God
shall be finally gathered.

So important is a home that it is worth much to give any hint that may improve
its order, hallow its precincts, sweeten its atmosphere, purify its communions,
increase its efficiency, unfold its relations, elevate its affections, ex

[ocr errors]

alt its intelligence, protect its virtues, perpetuate its faith, or impress its
importance. If we can aid in giving to America men and women who shall abide in
the comforts and securities of home, if we ca aidn in rendering more honorable
this altar of religion and cradle of patriotism, this model of the Church and
unit of the State; if we can aid in checking the worldly rush out of the home
into the chase for pleasure, the struggle for gain, and the brawl for fame
which sweeps away so many men and infects so many women in our time, we shall
be content. If by hints, practical suggestions, rules wrought out of the
experience of the good and wise, and instructions gathered from the world's
teachers every-where, we can aid the father in being a providence and a parent,
the mother in being a queen and a companion, the boy in becoming a vigorous and
manly man, and the girl in ripening into the graces of an intelligent, refined
woman; if by the words of this book we can help to perfect and actualize the
Christian home, so that here and there throughout the land a barefooted boy, or
a poor girl, or a weary mother, or a tired father, finding some new hope, or
better culture, or higher life, shall rise up and bless these pages, then we
shall not be sorry on account of the work, nor on account of the criticism of
those who may most need these suggestions.

MARRIAGE.

What God Thinks of Marriage.—In the beginning God created man, and then created
for him one woman, because it was not good for him to be alone. He created for
him only one woman because it would not be good for him to want to be alone. It
is not without a providential purpose that the number of the males is kept so
nearly equal to the number of the females for so many ages. "They twain shall
be one flesh," said the great Teacher. Not they twenty shall be one flesh, but
twain. He shall cleave unto his wife, not unto a score of wives. The Lord
avoids the perils of both extremes. He wants a man to be the husband of only
one wife. It is almost as unnatural for him not to have one as it is wicked to
have more than one. For "the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter
times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to reducing spirits, and
doctrines of devils; speaking lies in hypocriry, having their conscience seared
with a hot iron; Forbipdino To Makry." 1 Tim. iv, 1-3.

Principles Governing Marriage.—The following principles are formulated with the
full knowledge that it is not possible to give infallible directions for every
case. But it is also believed that the chances that these rules will apply are
immeasurably greater than that your case is really an exception to the laws
that generally obtain over people. Let it not be for

gotten that these rules are to find their application and do their helpful work
before the interested party is committed either in word or in feeling. Love
always blindfolds that he may lead captive. These rules are given not chiefly
for those who most need them, but for those who may need them hereafter.

1. Seek each other's hapjiiwss. A selfish marriage that seeks only its own
happiness defeats itself. Happiness is a fire that will not burn long on one
stick.

2. Give your best judgment full authority. Wedlock is not an impulse, but a
life. . Like Christianity, it may be miraculously started, but it must depend
upon arguments and works of righteousness for its prosperous continuance.

8. Do not marry suddenly. It can always be done till it is done, if it is a
proper thing to do.

4. Marry in your own grade in society. It is painful to be always apologizing
for any one. It is more painful to be apologized for.

5. Do not marry downward. It is hard enough to advance in the quality of life,
without being loaded by clay heavier than your own. It will be sufficiently
difficult to keep your children up to your best level without having to correct
a bias in their blood.

6. Do not sell yourself. It matters not whether the price be money or position.

7. Do not throw yourself away. You will not receive too much even if you are
paid full price.

8. "Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers." Argument cannot add
to the authority of this rule.

9. Seek the adoice of your parents. Your parents are your best friends. They
will make more sacrifice for you than any other mortals. They are elevated
above selfishness concerning you. If they differ from you concerning your
choice it is because they must,

10. Do not marry to please any third party. You must do the living and
enduring.

11. Do not marry to spite any body. It would add wickedness to folly.

12. Do nut marry because some one else may seek the same hand. One glove may
not fit all hands equally well.

13. Do not marry to get rid of any body. The coward who shot himself to escape
from being drafted was insane.

14. Do not marry merely for the impulse love. Love is a principle as well as an
emotion. So far as it is a sentiment it is a blind guide. It does not wait to
test the presence of exalted character in its object before breaking out into a
name. Shavings make a hot fire, but hard coal is better for the winter.

15. Do not marry without love. A body without a soul soon becomes offensive.

16. Do not regard marrying as absolutely necessary. While it is the general
order of Providence that people should marry, yet Providence may have some
other plan for you.

17. Beware of spiritual impressions concerning this subject. Four young
preachers consulted their Presiding Elder concerning marrying. Each said he
felt called of God to marry one certain lady.

18. Remember that love does not long survive respect.

19. Beware of mere magnetism.

20. Test carefully the effect of protracted association. If familiarity breeds
contempt before marriage, it will afterward.

21. Test carefully the effect of protracted separation. True love will defy
both time and space.

22. Consider carefully the right of your children Under the laws of heredity. 
It is doubtful whether you have a right to increase the number of invalids and
cripples.

23. Do not marry simply because you have promised to do so. If a seam opens
between you now it will widen into a gulf. It is less offensive to retract a
mistaken promise than to perjure your soul before the altar. Your intended has
a right to absolute integrity.

24. Avoid long engagements. Touching off a shell with a fuse two or three years
long is au uncertain experiment.

25. Marry character. It is not so much what one has as what one is.

26. Do not marry the wrong object. Themistocles said he would rather marry his
daughter to a man without money, than to money without a man. It is well to
have both. It is fatal to have neither.

27. Demand a just return. You give virtue and purity, and gentleness and
integrity. You have a right to demand the same in return. Duty requires it.

28. Accept nothing in the place of integrity. Any person who can deliberately
lie will do any thing else under favorable circumstanc es. There is no
foundation to character when integrity is wanting.

24 Require brains. Culture is good, but will not be transmitted. Brainpower may
be.

30. Remember (hat health precedes success.

31. See wltere the candidate is going. The mother of Dr. Henry, the
commentator, was told by her father when her hand was sought, "We do not , know
whence this man came." She replied, "I know whither he is going, and I want to
go with him."

32. Study past relationships. The good daughter and sister makes a good wife.
The good son and brother makes a good husband.

33. Never marry as a missionary deed. If one needs saving from bad habits he is
not suitable for you.

34. Beware of one who has been intemperate. The risk is too great.

35. Beware of a skeptic. If he doubts Rod he will doubt virtue.

36. Look for thrift in the Wood. ] f it does not appear, it must leak out
through some defect in the character or habits.

37. Observe the Bihle rule concerning consanguinity. In the transactions of the
American Medical Association, published March, 1859, Dr. Bemis of Kentucky
gives details of the history of nearly 1,000 married couples who were more or
less related before marriage. His facts abundantly prove such marriages to be
unfavorable to the health, life, character, and talents of the offspring. About
900 of the children of these parents died young, of consumption or scrofula.

From the reports of Hospitals, Asylums, Penitentiaries, etc., it is found that
about 10 per cent, of all the blind, deaf and dumb, idiotic and insane, have
parents who were blood relatives before marriage. Similar facts are well known
respecting some of the royal families of Europe.

HOW TO PERPETUATE THE HONEY-MOON.

Continue your courtship. Like causes produce like effects.

Do not assume a right to neglect your companion more after marriage than you
did before.

Have no secrets that you keep from your companion. A third party is always
disturbing.

Do not conceal your marriage for an hour. Busy bodies may perplex you with
advice. Madame Le Brun kept her marriage a secret for a short time, when people
advised her to drown herself rather than marry Le Brun. Even the Duchess
d'Arembourg said, "For Heaven's sake, don't marry him 1" The very concealment
begets perils. Integrity is the law of safety.

Avoid the appearance of evil. In matrimonial matters it is often that the mere
appearance contains all the evil. Love, as soon as it rises above calculation
and becomes love, is exacting. It gives all, and demands all.

Once married, never open your mind to any change. If you keep the door of your
purpose closed, evil or even desirable changes cannot make headway without
help.

Make the best of the inevitable. Fersist in looking at and presenting; the best
side. Such is the subtle constitution of the human mind, that we believe what
we will; also, what we frequently tell.

Keep step in mental development. A tree that grows for forty years may take all
the sunlight from a tree that stops growing at twenty.

Keep a lively interest in the business of the firm. Two that do not pull
together, arc weaker than either alone.

Gaugs your expenses by your revenues. Love must eat. The sheriff often levies
on Cupid long before he takes away the old furniture.

Start from where your parents started rather than from where they now are.
Hollow and showy boarding often furnishes the too strong temptation, while the
quietness of a humble home would cement the hearts beyond risk.

Avoid debt. Spend your own money, then it will not be necessary to blame any
one for spending other people's.

Do not both get angry at the same time. It takes two to quarrel.

Do not allow yourself ever to come to an open rupture. Things unsaid need less
repentance.

Study to understand your companion's disposition, in order to please and avoid
friction.

Study to oonform your tastes and habits to the tastes and habits of your
companion. If two walk together, they must agree.

Chang and Eng were the Siamese Twins. Chang made Eng lie down when sick. It
killed Eng, and Chang could not survive him. Take care of Eng. Few people
survive divorce.

HOW TO BE A GOOD HUSBAND.

Honor your wife. She must be exalted and never dethroned.

Love your wife. The measure is, as Christ loved the Church and gave himself for
her.

Show your love. All life manifests itself. As certainly as a live tree will put
forth leaves In the spring, so certainly will a living love show itself. Many a
noble man toils early and late to earn bread and position for his wife. He
hesitates at no weariness for her sake. He justly thinks that such industry and
providence give a better expression of his love than he could give by caressing
her and letting the grocery bills go unpaid. He fills the cellar and pantry. He
drives and pushes his business. He never dreams that he is actually starving
his wife to death. He may soon have a woman left to superintend his home, but
his wife is dying. She must be kept alive by the same process that called her
into being. Recall and repeat the little attentions and delicate compliments
that once made you so agreeable, and that fanned her love into a consuming
flame. It is not beneath the dignity of the skillful physician to study all the
little symptoms, and order all the little round of attentions, that check the
waste of strength and brace the staggering constitution. It is good work for a
husband to cherish his wife.

Suffer for your wife, if need be. Christ suffered for the Church.

Consult with her. She is as apt to be right as you are, and frequently able to
add much to your stock of wisdom. In any event, she appreciates your
attentions.

Study to keep her young. It can be done. It is not work, but worry, that wears.
Keep a brave, true heart between her and all harm. If you will carefully walk
in the way of righteousness you can shield her from cankering care. Providence
will not be likely to bring upon her any thing that is not for her good.

Help to bear her burdens. Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of
love. Love seeks opportunities to do for the loved object. She has the constant
care of your children. She is ordained by the Lord to stand guard over them.
Not a disease can appear in the community without her taking the alarm. Not a
disease can come over the threshold without her instantly springing into the
mortal combat. If there is a deficiency anywhere, it comes out of her pleasure.
Her burdens are every-where. Look for them, that you may lighten them.

Make yourself helpful by thoughtfulness. Remember to bring into the house your
best smile and sunshine. It is good for you, and it cheers up the home. There
is hardly a nook in the house that has not been carefully hunted through to
drive out every thing that might annoy you. The dinner which suits, or ought to
suit you, has not come on the table of itself. It represents much
thoughtfulness and work. You can do no more manly thing than find some way of
expressing, in word or look, your appreciation of it.

Express your will, not by commands, but by suggestions. It is

God's order that you should be the head of the family. You are clothed with
authority. But this does not authorize you to be stern and harsh, as an officer
in the army. Your authority is the dignity of love. When it is not clothed in
love it ceases to have the substance of authority. A simple suggestion that may
embody a wish, an opinion or an argument, becomes one who reigns over such a
kingdom as yours.

Study your own character as husband. Transfer your deeds, with the impressions
they might naturally make, to some other couple, and see what feelings they
would awaken in your heart concerning that other man. Are you seeking to
multiply the joys of your wife, as well as to support her? Arc you an agreeable
associate among your companions? If not, why should you expect your wife to be
pleased with you? Have you acquired the ability to entertain and cheer your
friends? If not, it is time you were studying to improve yourself as a husband.
If you can, make yourself a model husband,

and that will help your wife to be a model wife, and that will insure your home
against shipwreck and your happiness against decay.

Seek to refine your nature. It is no slander to say that many men have wives
much more refined than themselves. This is natural in the inequalities of life.
Other qualities may compensate for any defect here. But you need have no defect
in refinement. Preserve the gentleness and refinement of your wife as a rich
legacy for your children, and in so doing you will lift yourself to higher
levels.

Be a gentleman, as well as a husband. The signs and bronze and callouses of
toil are no indications that you are not a gentleman. The soul of
gentlemanliness is a kindly feeling toward others, that prompts one to secure
their comfort. That is why the thoughtful peasant lover is always so gentle,
manly, and in his love much above himself.

Remember the past experience of your wife. In all probability she has left a
better home than the one to which she comes. All the changes for the worse are
painful. Only her love for you extracts the pain. She cannot but contrast your
pinched accommodations with the abundance she left. It is right that these
changes should come. Young people cannot commence where the aged leave off. Yet
it becomes you to remember that she has taken you instead of all these
comforts, and you must see to it that she has no reason to regret her exchange.
Make the most of her better nature. This refinement enters into her value as a
mother and a maker of a home.

Level up. If your wife has the advantage in culture and refinement, and this is
quite a common condition, as girls usually have a better chance for education
and more leisure for books than boys have, do not sink her to your level, but
by study and thoughtfulness rise to her plane. The very ascent will improve
your home, and add to your value as a husband and to your influence as a
citizen.

Stay at home. Habitual absence during the evenings is sure to bring sorrow. If
your duty or business calls you, you have the promise that you will be kept in
all your ways. But if you go out to mingle with other society, and leave your
wife at home alone, or with the children and servants, know that there is no
good in store for you. She has claims upon you that you cannot afford to allow
to go to protest. Reverse the case. You sit down alone after having waited all
day for your wife's return, and think of her as reveling in gay society, and
see if you can keep out all doubts as to what takes her away. If your home is
not as attractive as you want it, you are a principal partner. Set yourself
about the work of making it attractive. Find some book to read or to have your
wife read to you, or some work that both can be interested in. Find something
that shall give interest to the evenings. Home is your only retreat. Satan
fights a family as Napoleon fought his enemies—divides it, then whips the parts
in detail. When you lounge away from home you go into temptation, and send
temptation to take your place at home.

Take your wife with you into society. Seclusion begets morbidness. She needs
some of the life that comes from contact with society. She must see how other
people appear and act. It often requires an exertion for her to go out of her
home, but it is good for her, and for you. She will bring back more sunshine.
It is wise to rest sometimes. When the Arab stops for his dinner he unpacks his
camel. Treat your wife with as much consideration.

HOW TO BE A GOOD WIFE.

Reverence your husband. He sustains by God's order a position of dignity as
head of the family, head of the woman. Any breaking down of this order
indicates a mistake in the union or a digression from duty.

Love him. A wife loves as naturally as the sun shines. Love is your best
weapon. You conquered him with that in the first place. You can reconquer by
the same means.

So not conceal your love from him. If he is crowded with care, and too busy to
seem to heed your love, you need to give all the greater attention to securing
his knowledge of your love. If you intermit he will settle down into a hard,
cold life with increased rapidity. Your example will keep the light on his
conviction. The more he neglects the fire on the hearth, the more carefully
must you feed and guard it. It must not be allowed to go out. Once out you must
sit forever in the darkness and in the cold.

Forsake all for him. Looking back may be as fatal to you as it was to Lot's
wife. You have voluntarily taken him "for better or for worse." Henceforth your
destinies are intertwined.

Confide in him. Distrust is a bottomless abyss.

Keep his love. It may require much care and thought, but the boon is vital to
your happiness.

Cultivate the modesty and delicacy of your youth. The relations and familiarity
of wedded life may seem to tone down the sensitive and retiring instincts of
girlhood, but nothing can compensate for the Iosb of these. However much men
may admire the public performance of gifted women, they do not desire that
boldness and dash in a wife. The holy blush of a maiden's modesty is more
powerful in hallowing and governing^ a home than the heaviest armament that
ever warrior bore.

Cultivate personal attractiveness. This means the storing of your mind with a
knowledge of passing events, and with a good idea of the world's general
advance. If you read nothing, and make no effort to make yourself attractive,
you will soon sink down into a dull hack of stupidity. If your husband never
hears from you any words of wisdom, or of common information, he will soon hear
nothing from you. Dress and gossip soon wear out. If your memory is weak, so
that it hardly seems worth while to read, that is additional reason for
reading. The disease is advancing to a threatening stage. Keep by you some well
selected book. Read little by little, as you can. Think of what you read. Talk
to your husband of it when he comes. If your memory fails you in the critical
moment, try it again. Persist, and victory is inevitable. Ask him questions
about it. Enlist his interest. Any new thing placed before him will awaken his
admiration. A careful reading of the daily and religious papers will enable you
to keep him posted by incidental references and statements while at table, or
while walking or riding, or in the sitting-room. Soon he will come to rely upon
you for his information on many matters. Then your throne cannot be shaken.
This need not occupy many moments each day. But your time will not be worth
having without it.

Cultivate physical attractiveness. When you were encouraging the attentions of
him whom you now call husband, you did not neglect any item of dress or
appearance that could help you. Your hair was always in perfect training. You
never greeted him with a ragged or untidy dress or soiled hands. It is true
that your "market is made," but you cannot afford to have it "broken."
Cleanliness and good taste will attract now as they did formerly. Keep yourself
at your best. Make the most of your physical endowments. Neatness and order
break the power of poverty.

Do not forget the power of incidental attentions. The arrow that pierces
between the joints of the mail is the one that does the execution. A little
time spent by your husband's side, without actually being busied with either
work or plans or complaints, is not wasted. A hand on the shoulder, a look, the
creeping of your hand into his, any of the thousand little things which your
instinct will teach you how to do, may drive away a cloud, and perpetuate the
sunshine.

Make your home attractive. This means more than furniture. It means the
thousand little touches of taste that drive the darkness out of the corners,
and the stiffness out of the parlor, and the gloom out of the house. Make your
home so easy that you will feel easy in it yourself. Feel at home in it
yourself, then the others will also feel easy there. Keep your house clean, and
in good order. It takes less time to so keep things than to neglect them and
hunt for them. Even poverty is no excuse for dirt. Many a man is driven by home
dirt to the bar-room, and through that to death. Have your tab le clean. Your
food may be coarse and cheap, but if it is clean, and put on in an inviting
shape, the meal will be relished. We have relished meals in a cabin where there
was but one dish on the table, and that the kettle in which it was cooked. The
appetizer was on the floor, which shone from the scrubbing-brush till one could
safely eat from it. Your home is your kingdom. Its order and attractiveness
will have much to do with your position as a wife.

Preserve sunshine. People shun clouds. Light is life. It does not matter that
some things have gone wrong. Things have ways of going crooked. It is not best
for you to keep pouring your petty trials into your husband's ears. There are
times when he must hear them, but study these times. Do not keep up such a din
of complaint that he identifies the idea of home with the idea of distress. In
a sense he is your supreme guest. Make the best of what you have. Keep the
order at the front, and organize order backward as rapidly as possible. You do
not wish to always appear in the role of a beggar who sits by the highway
showing his wounds and deformities as reasons for receiving pennies. Some
people always retail their distresses and ailments, till one shuns them like a
pest hospital. When your husband comes in, let him receive a flood of sunlight.
It will do no harm if he comes to think of you as sunlight. True, he is under
equal obligation to bring sunlight with him, but you can help him by example.
One certain result you will secure, namely, you will avoid all the imaginary
storms, be better prepared to meet the real ones, and have a vast deal of
sunshine in your own life as a constant compensation.

Study your husband's character. He has his peculiarities. He has no right to
many of them, but he has them, and you need to know them; thus you can avoid
many hours of friction. The good pilot steers around the sunken rocks that lie
in the channel. The engineer may remove them, not the pilot. . You are more
pilot than engineer. Consult his tastes. It is more important to your home that
you should please him than any body else. Patience, time, and tact will enable
you to clear out the channel, or make new channels through the very substance
of his character. A given amount of study expended on him will yield a larger
amount of happiness for your family than it can invested anywhere else.

Cultivate his better nature. Avoid appearing to be shocked at his rude or crude
notions, but set him to thinking about things that will elevate the plane of
his convictions, tastes, and feelings. Books, extracts, incidents that contain
truths which you wish him to imbibe, can be put in his way or read to him in
his leisure. As his standard is more elevated his actions will improve The
winter's blast causes us to hug our wraps, but an hour's spring sunshine causes
us to throw them open and off.

Study to meet your duties as a wife. Criticise your own defects without mercy.
No one else will treat them mercifully. Correct the points that are wrong. If
you are indifferent, cultivate interest. If you are negligent concerning your
domestic duties, take on care. Whatever a good wife does or ought to do, do
that. You can master the science of being a wife as well as you can master any
other science.

Seek to secure your husband's happiness. Blessing, you shall be blessed. You
cannot anchor your end of the ship in a haven of peace while the other end is
carried down the cataract.

Study his interest. Many women wreck their fortune, and darken their future by
indifference to the business interests of their husbands. They fix their hearts
upon some display which they cannot afford. The husband must choose between
bankruptcy and a family quarrel. Hoping against hope, he purchases peace at too
high a price, and ruin comes in at the door which the wife opened to admit her
pride or comfort. If need be, live in one room. Eat from the end of a trunk,
but do not go beyond your means. Nothing is more respectable than independence.

Practice economy. Many families are cast out of peace into grumbling and
discord by being compelled to fight against poverty. When there are no great
distresses to be endured or accounted for, complaint and fault-finding are not
so often evoked. Keep your husband free from the annoyances of disappointed
creditors, and he will be more apt to keep free from annoying you. To toil hard
for bread, to fight the wolf from the door, to resist impatient creditors, to
struggle against complaining pride at home, is too much to ask of one man. A
crust that is your own is a feast, while a feast that is purloined from
unwilling creditors is a famine.

FACTS FOR PARENTS.

Paternity is earth's highest dignity. The parent is the best human type of God.
Paternal authority is the germ out of which are unfolded all governments and
all religions. It combines law, authority, power, wisdom, providence,
punishments, pardons, remedial agencies, mercy, love, sacrifice, instruction,
leadership and companionship. It epitomizes nature, Providence and grace.

Children are boons. They impart dignity to life and furnish a motive for work.
They gather up the withering and fading plans for self, and cast them out into
the future, renewed in vigor and hope. They cement the family in unity.

Children give new life to a home. They warm the house. They dis

pel the gloom. They constrain age to renewed youth. They transform a hall into
a home.

Children are great teachers of theology. They give new meaning to the important
terms in which God seeks to reveal himself. Father, and pity, and pardon, and
love, and faith, and authority, and probation, and punishment, and recovery,
derive more meaning from a single child than from all dictionaries and grammars
combined. They show us the supreme order in confusion and the instrumental
character of law. In God's Kingdom it is true of men, "A little child shall
lead them."

Parents put their image and superscription upon their children. They beget them
in their own image, and train them into their own faith and destiny. Selecting
for them their toys, their playmates, their books and their churches, they are
responsible for their moral character and social life.

Prepare for the duties of the parental relation. It requires apprenticeship for
the common mechanic arts. Long training prepares the surgeon to tamper with
physical limbs. What thoughtfulness should precede the assumption of parental
relations!

Construct your home for your children. Home may be made the most attractive
place on earth. Many lose their children as soon as they can escape. There is a
mistake somewhere. If the house is glum and stiff, the children required to
keep still while the parents read or doze—if the house is only a feeding and
clothing place, or a workshop, it has none of the charms of home, and will be
early empty. But the home should be more than a house. Fill it with good cheer,
youthful hope, with instruction and entertainment and affection; then it will
be a perpetual benediction. Your highest duty is to your children. Make home so
winsome to them that they will not go away from your eye for their pleasures.
Be yourself a necessary and welcome part of their work and of their study and
of their sports. It is not a service of bondage, but a reign of love in the
midst of the growing sons and daughters, that you are to maintain.

Remember that children do grow old. We can hardly believe that they can be
trusted as we were when we were of their age. We remember them as our little
ones.

Recall, aa distinctly as possible, your own youth. Prcdt by your own
experience, and let your children also profit by it.

FAMILY GOVERNMENT. FORTY-TWO HINTS. 1. Family government is to be family
government. It uses authority, authority in love, yet authority. It ordains
law. It commands the child's moral nature.

2. It is not merely a provision for temporal relief. It does more than dress,
feed and nurse. It is for higher purposes than exhorting, or ad'vising, or
caressing.

3. It rules in the place of God. We are created in a system by a plan of
reproduction. God creates us second-hand, and governs us in the same way.

4. It prepares a religion of the hearth. This seizes upon the infinite Father
on the first opportunity. The capacities and faculties for apprehending God are
prepared in the home, and are experimented in private, till a distinct idea of
God is presented; then this government rises into the spiritual government, and
religion is launched upon the soul.

5. Parental rule must seek the ends sought by the Lord. Short of this, it is
not a system of statesmanship, but a trick of politicians. It must seek purely
Christian ends. To serve worldly purposes in our children by wanting for them
chiefly wealth, or honor, or power, or position, is to fall below any thing
worthy of the name of Family Government.

6. Parents governing on a lower plane lose all inspiration. The

only dignity that can draw the soul up to its own infinite heights is the word
of supreme authority. Expediency and advice are conveniences which can never be
galvanized into power. Governing in God's place, one camiot miss of
inspiration.

7. Family government may reach real piety. It is not expected that a mere human
order will secure conversion, or that a free use of the rod will reach that
result. It is chiefly urged that the child, obeying the representative
authority from the motives which God enthrones, may be brought into that spirit
of trustful obedience which underlies all piety, and which makes salvation
solely a question of God's willingness to save.

8. The parents must be in the Spirit to attain the highest results.

Their lives must be so steadied, their passions so quieted, as to give them the
highest personal authority. All the human agency turns on personal authority.
This means genuineness. This means authority rather than sanctimoniousness.
Children feel only realities. When the atmosphere of the home is Christian,
then they are sure to be encircled.

9. Instill principles, rather than enact rules or issue commands.

Religious life is removed the farthest possible from a ritual or ceremony. It
is a spirit. Enlightened conviction that makes its own applications partakes of
the divine plan, while enactments are man's device to leave an offender without
an excuse against penalty.

10. Gentleness must characterize every act of authority. The storm of
excitement that may make the child start, bears no relation to actual
obedience. The inner firmness, that sees and feels a moral conviction and
expects obedience, is only disguised and defeated by bluster. The more calm and
direct it is, the greater certainty it has of dominion.

11. For the government of small children speak only in the authority of love,
yet authority, loving and to be obeyed. The most important lesson to impart is
obedience to authority as authority. The question of salvation with most
children will be settled as soon as they learn to obey parental authority. It
establishes a habit and order of mind that is ready to accept divine authority.
This precludes skepticism and disobedience, and induces that childlike trust
and spirit set forth as a necessary state of salvation. Children that are never
made to obey are left to drift into the sea of passion where the pressure for
surrender only tends to drive them at greater speed from the haven of safety.

12. After obedience is secured to authority, explanations may follow to
strengthen authority for future storm.

13. For a child not wrecked in deceit, appeal to religious motives.

These are the love of God, love of virtue, love of purity, approval of their
own conscience.

14. For a child dashed under falsehood, threatening the very integrity of the
character, operate on lower motive to drive him up into obedience. This
distinguishes between fear and terror. God appeals to one for virtue, and may
use the other in final retributions.

15. Form in the child habits of self-denial. Pampering never matures good
character.

16. Form in the child habits of benevolence. It partakes of the divine mind. It
should become a state, and not be an impulse.

17. Emphasize integrity. Keep the moral tissues tough in integrity; then it
will hold a hook of obligations when once set in a sure place. There is nothing
more vital. Shape all your experiments to preserve the integrity. Do not so
reward it that it becomes mercenary. Turning State's evidence is a dangerous
experiment in morals. Prevent deceit from succeeding.

18. Guard modesty. To be brazen is to imperil some of the best elements of
character. Modesty may be strengthened into a becoming confidence, but
brazen-facedness can seldom be toned down into decency. It requ res the miracle
of grace.

19. Protect purity. Teach your children to loathe impurity. Study the character
of their playmates. Watch their books. Ke# p them from corrup. tion at all
cost. The groups of youth in the schools, and in society, and in business
places, seethe with improprieties of word and thought. Never relax your
vigilance along this exposed border.

20. In family government threaten the least possible. Some parents rattle off
their commands with penalties so profusely that there is a steady roar of
hostilities about the child's head. These threats are forgotten by the parent
and unheeded by the child. All government is at an end.

21. Do not enforce too many commands. Leave a few things within the range of
the child's knowledge that are not forbidden. Keep your word good, but do not
have too much of it out to be redeemed.

22. Punish as little as possible. Sometimes punishment is necessary, but the
less it is resorted to the better.

23. Reward rather than punish. Heaven is better than hell.

24. Never punish in a passion. Wrath becomes only cruelty. There is no moral
power in it. When you seem to be angry you can do no good.

25. Disorder means ruin. This is true of the governed and of the government.
Order must be enforced.

26. Brutish violence only multiplies offenders. Striking and beating the body
seldom reaches the soul. Fear and hatred beget rebellion.

27. Avoid punishments that break down self-respect. Striking the body produces
shame and indignation.

28. Punish privately. It is enough for the other children to know that
discipline is being administered.

29. Hold a child sometimes by main force. This may give the idea of a
resistless force without any of the cruelty of blows or fierceness of passion.

30. Avoid extremes. Make your punishment severe enough to succeed, but never
too severe to show love.

31. Never stop short of success. When the child is not conquered the punishment
has been worse than wasted. Reach the point where neither wrath nor sullenness
remain. By firm persistency and persuasion require an open look of recognition
and peace. It is only evil to stir up the devil unless he is cast out.
Ordinarily one complete victory will last a child for a life-time. But if the
child relapses repeat the dose with proper accompaniments.

32. Leave no ambiguity about the reason and purpose for which you are
punishing. A whipping is not so many lashes. It is so much moral persuasion. It
means results in peace.

33. You must discover existing offenses. Disobedience undiscovered breaks down
the moral nature. It substitutes cunning in the place of principle.

34. Avoid apparent espionage. To be shadowed stirs all the evil within, and
awakens all the disgust and wrath against the spy.

35. So not show distrust. Like begets like.

36. Make no random charges. There are wiser ways of cross-questioning. False
accusations are never forgotten, and are made the excuse for offenses.

37. Do not require children to complain of themselves for pardon. It begets
either sycophants or liars. It is the part of the government to detect
offenses. It reverses the order of matters to shirk this duty.

38. How to watch. Notice his directions, question his companions, question him
for details. Be on the look-out for omissions. Fill the silent spaces with
questions. A child is sure to fall through such an examination. A few
discoveries wisely handled discourage the art of sin.

39. Grade authority up to liberty. The growing child must have experiments of
freedom. Lead him gently into the family. Counsel with him. Let him plan as he
can. By and by he has the confidence of courage without the danger of
exposures.

- 40. Parents must respect each other. Undermining either undermines both.

41. Always keep in the spirit of love.

42. Form an alliance with the children against the spirit of evil, and get them
to help you conquer that evil. This inspires them by making them feel that they
are taking the part of victors rather than of the vanquished.

SUGGESTIONS TO CHILDREN.

Reverence your parents. Always address them in respectful language. Slang terms
that would bring them into disrepect with others are offensive. "The governor,"
"the old man," "the boss," are terms of disrespect. Your heart may not be so
coarse toward them, and think such expressions only add spirit to your
conversation, but you are working evil to yourself. Honoring your parents
secures God's favor.

Appreciate your parents. You will never understand how much they have done for
you till it is too late for you duly to show your appreciation. You will never
find any other friends who will care for you and cling to you in evil fortune
as your parents. They may not have worldly renown, but they deserve your
homage. Your best blood you received from them.

Do not shorten childhood by haste. Maturity will come only too soon. Childhood
is your probation for life. Extend it, and make the most of it.

Confide in your parents. Your most sacred and your most dangerous secrets are
safer with your parents than anywhere else. Never conceal any habit or course
of action from them. If you cannot trust it with your mother it has no right in
your bosom. If you would blush to tell her you should blush to know it.

Never read a book you would not show your parents. Vulgar and obscene books or
pictures will curse you all your years. The pictures haunt you. They blast you
when you least expect it. As you value your peace read no book which you would
blush to have your mother see you reading.

In mature years visit and write home frequently. Soon it will be impossible.

MEMBERS OF THE FAMILY.

Brothers in the family. Whatever makes you agreeable to your young lady friends
can be added to the charms you have for your sister. Nothing is more attractive
in a young man than marked attention to his sister.

Your sister naturally expects certain protection from you. She has a right to
receive those delicate attentions that shall protect her from coarseness and
vulgarity. Next to your mother or wife she must receive the affection that is
glad to comfort.

Never leave her in want of an escort. She has a royal right to be kept from
embarrassment so long as you are within reach.

Sisters in the family. The office of a sister is most delicate and important.
As a sister, you are preparing your brother to move freely in the society of
ladies. You are refining some woman's home. As the string follows and governs
the bow so you may seem to follow, yet you do govern your brother.

How to treat the aged. The Chinese set a good example in this matter. Never
banish an aged relative to some garret. The aged deserve care and attention in
proportion to their years and feebleness. An old person should have the easiest
chair, should never be allowed to stand either at home or in a street car, or
in any public conveyance, or in public assemblies.

Greet them with a hearty good morning. Inquire after their rest. Pay special
attention in seating them at the table and in waiting upon them. Teach the
children to wait upon them, and go occasionally to their rooms to see if they
need any thing.

As they grow feeble they will entertain doubts about their being welcome, deek
to dispel these doubts by repeated assurances and acts of kindness.

Talk to them. Listen to them. By questions start them on the themes of their
early lives. Furnish them with books in proper type. Read to them as you have
time, or can take it.

Do not strain them up to your judgment. Humor their whims, if you so call their
tastes. The old shoe is the easiest, and they now need ease, not discipline.

God has special care of the aged. When the grasshopper is a burden and the
windows are darkened he opens their way to other worlds. If they have grown old
in religion he sends his angels to await their translation. It is good to join
with the angels in ministries of kindness.

A mother-in-law in the family. Your wife is inexperienced, and the presence of
her mother may be her greatest comfort. No one could be more unselfish in her
counsels and care. But for your mother-in-law you would have never been blessed
with your wife. She has bestowed more care and attention upon your wife than
any other mortal.

In many of the trying hours of life she relieves with her experience and love
from anxiety and exposure.

If her home is dismembered by death or time so she becomes an inmate and member
of your family, you can ordinarily make her presence a blessing to yourself and
family by making it a blessing to herself. The secret is in usefulness. The
most fearful of all conditions is to feel useless. Some of the cares shifted
from the shoulders of your wife will keep both her and her mother from ageing.

The criticism and joking about mothers-in-law is coarse, and indicates a low
nature. It is often prejudicial and always wicked. Honor the grandmother of
your children. Children, whose unperverted instincts are good tests of
character, seldom go amiss concerning a grand-parent. Care of a husband's
mother often becomes a question requiring special consideration. Reverence,
affection, employment, and average tact will bless the home forever.

A step-mother in the family. Remember, she makes greater sacrifices in
attempting to care for children than they can to make her comfortable. If she
is willing the children certainly ought not to object. Few things are more
senseless than the constant criticism of step-mothers. No one can tell how soon
his own children may need and be glad to secure just such help and love. She is
brave; honor her.

SERVANTS IN THE FAMILY.

A good master makes a good servant. But there are certain duties and rights
which pertain to the servant. The servant must give the whole time for which he
is paid. May aspire to higher positions.

May expect promotion from showing capacity in his present place, and from
meeting perfectly its duties.

Should identify himself with the interests of his employer. If he is not
faithful over things intrusted to his care, who will give him things of his
own?

Should preserve the strictest fidelity.

Should serve when out of sight as scrupulously as when under the employer's
eye. God sees every-where.

May secure his wishes by requests, not by commands. Should conform his ways of
doing given things to the wish of the employer.

Should seek to meet the wish of the employer in spirit, reliability, ability,
and activity.

Should secure permanence of engagement by making himself necessary to his
employer.

Should carefully study the duties assigned, so as to perform them most
perfectly.

Should avoid habits and manners distasteful to his employer.

Should avoid talking much. Speak when spoken to, and when drawn into
conversation by your employer.

Should seek to gain and retain respect. Respect is the foundation of all
dignity. It is better to be a respected employe than a disrespected employer.

HINTS TO EMPLOYERS.

The employer should remember that all rights do not center in himself. His
advantage is an incident of fortune. Kindness to his employes is in keeping
with his highest dignity. Some things he ought to do in the interest of common
manhood:

Identify himself with the interests of his employes. Interest begets interest.

Pay honestly what he would expect in a reversed case, and what God requires.

Pay promptly. A man with little credit needs regular payment.

Watch over the morals of his employes. Open the future to young men. A word or
two from his superior judgment may be worth a fortune to the young man, and
secure a useful member of society.

Inspire respect by the constant bearing of manhood and royalty of soul.

Encourage the worker in his work.

Instruct with kindliness.

Correct in authority and in gentleness.

MISTRESS IN THE FAMILY.

The mistress should remember that her position gives her certain dignity. She
can safely expect her wish to be carried out without descending to a con
troversy. Her face is the sun or the night in the house.

She must preserve good temper. That will sweeten all the hours. A smile on her
face and good-nature in her voice will calm any storm.

Avoid fault-finding. Instruction can be given in a better way. Lead your help
into higher capabilities by hints and suggestions. Know what ought to be done,
then in a quiet, kindly way see that it is done.

Improve your servants by showing them how they can do better, and what an
advantage it will be to them.

Secure their confidence in your kindness, then you can direct them to better
ways with ease.

Keep them in self-respect by occasional encouragements about their own neatness
and personal appearance. Do not discourage a girl from brushing and ornamenting
her hair. Let them keep their own rooms in order, as being parts of the hours.
Make them comfortable. Servant-girls need mirrors.

Put your servants into the way of self-care by suggestions, and occasionally
helping them to mend and improve their clothes.

Inspire them with the sense of life's worth. The motives from the future are
urged upon servants in the New Testament. The heathen master is merged in the
idea of God, so they are inspired to render service as unto God.

SUPERIORS AND INFERIORS.

Proper respect for superiors is a due part of liberty. In America we are so
determined to be equal, as well as free, that we often reduce our actual grade
by disregarding the natural proprieties of our situation. In law and in rights
before the courts and at the polls we are equal, but in our employments and
social relations we are as diverse as we are numerous.

Children should be subordinate to parents, pupils to teachers, employed to
employers, citizens to magistrates, the comfort of the strong and healthy to
that cf the delicate and feeble.

Superiors in age, office or station have precedence of subordinates, feebleness
of strength, women of men.

A parent, teacher or employer may admonish for neglect of duty, may take
precedence without remark or apology, while an inferior must first ask leave.

Superiors may use language and manners of freedom which would be improper in
inferiors.

Respect is due from all to all. Children should show respect to the feelings of
servants.

It is the most exalted philosophy to accept facts. Assertions against the facts
do not exalt the lowly or debase the truly exalted.

TRAINING CHILDREN FOR GIVEN ENDS.

What is your purpose in training—not what you would say in class or confession
meeting, but in fact? Several distinct purposes animate parents. Look them over
and decide what your case is, and what it ought to be.

Training for usefulness. Instill into their minds the conviction that It is
greatest to serve most. Train them—

To wait upon themselves, instead of calling for some one to help them.

To do helpful things. Some people think it is a sign of liberal condition to
disregard all helpfulness.

To appreciate an economy that saves for the sake of increasing the aggregate of
supplies.

To suspect any line of action that seeks mere personal happiness or
gratification.

To acquire useful accomplishments. Pastimes may be helpful by adding to the
general comfort of the household.

To understand that it is more blessed to give than to receive, to minister than
to be ministered unto.

To do good always as they have opportunity.

Training for wealth. Wealth is power, and may be a blessing. We instinctively
want our children to have its comforts and advantages. But to train for that,
so that every thought shall turn on the dollar mark, is to transform the man
into a money bag. Wealth must end in usefulness or in selfishness. To give your
children safe views and uses of wealth you must show them greater objects, for
the attainment of which wealth is only a means— use your money for great moral
or religious purposes. Show them things for which you part with money. When
they are inspired with a proper estimate of the value of money in itself, and
for the great ends it may accomplish, then you can set them on ways of securing
it.

Teach them to earn it. It is dangerous to learn that a dollar can be had in any
easier way than to earn it.

Teach them to save it, The boy and the penny pulling one way secure the
fortunes.

Teach them to utilize capital. Let them furnish the tools and head-work tor men
of lower capabilities.

Teach them to study and analyze the life and modes of successful men. What has
been done may be done again.

Surround them, as far as possible, with thrifty men.

Let them join business with men who are in the habit of succeeding. Shiftless
or irresponsible men will always abound, who are willing to join with them.

Warn them against enterprises where they must bear all the risks, and others
share the profits.

Warn them against the peril of being in haste for wealth. Never run ahead of
the hounds.

Training for greatness. The Spartans brought their children to public tables,
and reared them in the presence of their great men, that they might be familiar
with the greatness of Sparta. Noble ends may be kept before their minds till
they will never think of themselves as capable of little meannesses. Hold them
to noble ambitions and great purposes.

Training for refined society. The highest refinement of soul cannot be lost on
them. It cannot harm your boy to school him into gentlemanly manners and
habits. To reach this advantage he must—

Think. Be at home in his mind. Reflection and thoughtfulness soon show
themselves in the face.

Notice the manners of persons familiar with refined society. Object lessons are
valuable.

Compare his own conduct with the best models.

Seek information by reading on these subjects.

Practice whatever he learns that will help to refine.

Training for heaven. Follow Thk New Testament.

CHOOSING A CALLING.

But few are elected, by either endowment or taste, to any one particular
calling or trade. Several doors open about you. It may be true that you can do
some one thing better than any of the others, but it is usually true that there
are a number of things which you can do with tolerable success.

Study your natural proclivities. Sometimes the sports indicate the gilts.
Napoleon played with cannon, Nelson with ships.

Study Providence. There is much in having things open before a boy for his
development.

Do not break over your natural qualifications. A successful laborer is' happier
and more useful than an unsuccessful professional man or tradesman. Poor
farmers are sometimes made out of good lawyers. Henry Clay, working

with an ox team, would carry the ox goad on his shoulder across the field, and
by and by come to himself, to find that he had been waiting for the team to
come up, which, understanding his abstraction, had gone aside to graze.

Our wishes are often presentiments of our capabilities.

Having settled the calling, let it remain settled. You have left the ship on
that plank, now you must reach the shore. Study on the line of your work. You
must know all about that. Doubtless you have ability that, well applied, would
succeed in several lines. But you have no ability that will succeed in any, if
shifting from one to another is the rule.

Pith: study self, study Providence, choose, persist.

HOW TO CONDUCT FAMILY PRAYER.

Conduct it according to your strength. Gifts differ, but the apiri* is one.
Some Christians have great fluency and boldness in prayer, others have the
spirit of testimony, but are unable to lead others in prayer. Some, owing to
natural timidity, or untoward training in religious exercises, or from the
lateness of their conversion, are not able to pray in the hearing of others.
This diversity of gifts necessitates diversity in practice. Some few
suggestions may not be out of place.

Have family prayer. If you cannot have it In one form have it in another, but
have it. You are intrusted with the fashioning of the religious life and
character of a family; you can hardly do your best without the great help of
family worship. The family is the type of the Church. The Church in the family
is God's favorite idea. He established his Church first in the family of
Abraham, because he knew Abraham that he would order his house and his children
after him.

Collect your household as far as possible at a stated hour each morning and
evening, in a given room, and then read a portion of God's word, and, all
kneeling, render thanks for the mercies received and invoke his blessing for
the future.

It is a good custom to have each member of the family take part in the service,
reading in turn two or more verses, till a suitable amount has been read. Then
sing a hymn, or two or three stanzas. If any in the family can play, and you
have a piano or organ, it gives additional impressiveness to the service. After
this let the father (patriarch) who is the head and minister of the family
church, lead in prayer, closing with the Lord's Prayer, in which all join.

If the father is not a professing Christian, and does not forbid family
worship, the duty of leadership devolves upon the mother, the same as in the
case of the temporal death of the father. Many a family has been trained into
righteousness by the fidelity of the mother. While it is often a great cross
for a wife and mother to bear these burdens, yet God honors this fidelity by
saving the children, restraining the husband, and often leading him to life.

If the father cannot command courage to lead in prayer, it is often found
profitable for him to read the Lord's Prayer instead of offering a prayer of
his own construction.

If the father cannot even venture so far, many families have been blessed and
nurtured in godliness by all kneeling and uniting in silent prayer for a few
moments. In the absence of other modes the reading of prayer prescribed by the
Church is of service in keeping the Spirit of God in the family.

It is a valuable custom on the Sabbath morning when the family rests from the
labor of the week, for the worship to be varied by having other members of the
family, the wife, or some of the children, follow the father in leading in
prayer.

It is helpful to have a room where all meet for prayer, and have its
appointment suited to help the devotional thought. Let the pictures in that
room be distinctively spiritual, or religious. It may be the chapel of the
house.

GRACE AT THE TABLE. Render unto God thanks for daily bread. This should be done
reverently by the head of the family. Some families stand round the table till
the blessing is invoked. Some families sing the long-meter doxoljjgy. Some
families sing the doxology, and then follow it with the vocal blessing. Some
families bow their heads in silence, each invoking God's blessing. Some
families repeat each a verse of Scripture. Some families repeat the Scriptures,
thus and then ask the blessing. Any form that seems best suited to the tastes
and convictions of the family is good enough. The supreme point is to
acknowledge and thank God, and invoke his continual blessing.

HOW TO PROFIT BY HABIT.

Habit becomes destiny. God gives us the power to form habits that we may
crystallize victories. All improvement in the fingers of the knitter, in the
eye of the painter, in the tongue of the speaker, in the hand of the artisan,
is the gift of habit. Habit is a channel worn in the substance of the soul,
along which our purpose and our ability run with increased facility. Prayer,
faith, regularity in life, all that builds up steadiness of character, is
augmented by habit. Habit is the parent's hold upon the child, and the good
man's power against Satan. The formation of a habit reduces to this simple
direction: Apply yourself to a given plan industriously, punctually, and
persistently.

Having this power in your mind, use it in acquiring habits of obedience and of
faith.

HINTS AND HELPS IN CONVERSATION.

The ability to converse instructively and elegantly is one of the greatest
endowments and accomplishments. By it other minds, even of the highest order,
are led with the greatest ease. It is a delightful way in which to receive and
impart information. Varilles said: "Of ten things which I know, I have learned
nine from conversation." The gift of speech is man's supreme distinction. This
is one impassable gulf between him and the lower grades of life. Its use in the
common every-day intercourse of life makes up a large part of the intellectual
activity of the race. Nothing in culture can exceed the importance of doing it
well. The following hints and helps have been carefully gleaned from a wide
range of authorities, and are here presented as matter familiar to many of our
readers, but as matter which each successive generation needs to learn for
itself:

The soul of refined conversation is the same as the soul of refined manners,
namely, good-will toward others and a desire to secure their comfort and
increase their happiness. This great law underlies all the rules on this
subject. The authoritative putting of this law is, Do as you would be done by.

Say nothing unpleasant when it can be avoided.

Avoid satire and sarcasm.

Never repeat a word that was not intended for repetition.

Cultivate the supreme wisdom, which consists less in saying what ought to be
said than in not saying what ought not to be said.

Often cultivate "flashes of silence."

It is the larger half of the conversation to listen well.

Listen to others patiently, especially the poor

Sharp sayings are an evidence of low breeding.

Shun faultfinding and faultfinders.

Never utter an uncomplimentary word against any one.

Compliments delicately hinted and sincerely intended are a grace in
conversation.

Commendation of gifts and cleverness properly put are in good taste, but praise
of beauty is offensive.

Repeating kind expressions is proper.

Compliments given in a joke may be gratefully received in earnest.
The manner and tone are important parts of a compliment.
Avoid egotism.

Don't talk of yourself, or of your friends, or your deeds.
Give no sign that you appreciate your own merits.

Do not become the distributer of the small talk of a community. The ■miles of
your auditors do not mean respect.

Avoid giving the impression of one filled with "suppressed egotism."

Never mention your own peculiarities; for culture destroys vanity.

Avoid exaggeration.

Do not be too positive.

Do not talk to hear yourself.

Do not talk to display oratory.

Do not try to lead in conversation, looking around to enforce silence.
Lay aside affected silly etiquette for the natural dictates of the heart.
Direct the conversation where others can join with you, and impart to you
useful information.

Avoid oddity. Eccentricity is shallow vanity.
Be modest.

Be what you wish to seem.

If you find bashfulness or embarrassment coming upon you, do or say something
at once. The commonest matter gently stated is better than an embarrassing
silence. Sometimes changing your position, or looking into a book for a moment,
may relieve your embarrassment, and dispel any settling stiffness.

Avoid telling many stories, or repeating a story more than once in the same
company. Avoid repeating a brilliant or clever saying.

Never treat any one as if you simply wanted him to tell stories. People laugh
and despise such a one.

Never tell a coarse story. No wit or preface can make it excusable.

Tell a story, if at all, only as an illustration, and not for itself. Tell it
accurately.

Be careful, in asking questions for the purpose of starting conversation or of
drawing out a person, not to be rude or intrusive.

Never take liberties by staring, or by any rudeness.

Never infringe upon established regulations among strangers.

Do not always prove yourself to be the one in the right. The right will appear.
You need only give it a chance.

Avoid argument in conversation. It is discourteous to your host.

Cultivate paradoxes in conversation with your peers. They add interest to
common-place matters. To strike the harmless faith of ordinary people in

Miy public idol is waste, but such a movement with those able to reply is
better.

Never discourse upon your ailments.

Encourage yourself against threatening timidity at meeting a company, by the
thought that you could talk with any one of them. Like Napoleon, take them in
detail.

Use correct language.

Never use slang.

Never use words of the meaning or pronunciation of which you are uncertain.

Use Saxon words, and avoid foreign words.

Avoid repetitions and hackneyed expressions.

Avoid discussing your own or other peoples' domestic concerns.

Never prompt a slow speaker, as if you had all the ability. In conversing with
a foreigner who may be learning our language, it is excusable to help him in
some delicate way.

Never give advice unasked.

Suit your address to the ages of the persons with whom you are speaking. Do not
manifest impatience. Do not interrupt another when speaking. Do not find fault,
though you may gently criticise. Do not appear to notice inaccuracies of speech
in others. Do not allow yourself to lose temper or speak excitedly. Do not
always commence a conversation by allusion to the weather. Do not when
narrating an incident continually say, "you see," "you know."

Do not intrude professional or other topics that the company generally cannot
take an interest in.

Do not talk very loud. A firm, clear, distinct, yet mild, gentle, and musical
voice has great power.

Do not be absent-minded, requiring the speaker to repeat what has been said
that you may understand.

Do not try to force yourself into the confidence of others.

Do not use profanity, vulgar terms, words of double meaning, or language that
will bring the blush to any one. v

Do not allow yourself to speak ill of the absent one if it can be avoided; the
day may come when some friend will be needed to t efend you in your absence.

Do not speak with contempt and ridicule of a locality which you may be
visiting. Find something to truthfully praise and commend; thus make yourself
agreeable.

Do not make a pretense of gentility, nor parade the fact that you are a
descendant of any notable family. You must pass for just what you are, and must
stand on your own merit.

Do not contradict. In making a correction say, "I beg your pardon, but I had an
impression that it was so and so." Be careful in contradicting, as you may be
'wrong yourself.

Do not be unduly familiar; you will merit contempt if you are. Neither should
you be dogmatic in your assertions, arrogating to yourself much consequence in
your opinions.

Do not be too lavish in your praise of various members of your own family when
speaking to strangers; the person to whom you are speaking may know some faults
that you do not.

Do not feel it incumbent upon yourself to carry your point in conversation.
Should the person with whom you are conversing feel the same, your talk may
lead into violent argument.

Do not allow yourself to use personal abuse when speaking to another, as in so
doing you may make that person a life-long enemy. A few kind, courteous words
might have made him a life-long friend.

Do not discuss politics or religion in general company. You probably would not
convert your opponent, and he will not convert you. To discuss those topics is
to arouse feeling without any good result.

Do not make a parade of being acquainted with distinguished or wealthy people,
of having been to college, or of having visited foreign lands. All this is no
evidence of any real genuine worth on your part.

Do not use the surname alone when speaking of your husband or wife to others.
To say to another that "I told Jones," referring to your husband, Bounds badly.
Whereas, to say "I told Mr. Jones," shows respect and good breeding.

Do not yield to bashfulness. Do not isolate yourself, sitting back in a corner,
waiting for some one to come and talk with you. Step out; have something to
say. Though you may not say it very well, keep on, You will gain courage and
improve. It is as much your duty to entertain others as fheirs to amuse you.

Do npt attempt to pry into the private affairs of others by asking what their
profits arp, what things cost, whether Melissa ever had a beau, and why
Amarette never got married? All such questions are extremely impertinent, and
are likely to meet with rebuke.

Do not whisper in company; do npt engage in private conTersation; do not speak
a foreign language which the general company present may not understand, unless
it is understood that the foreigner is unable to speak your own language.

Do not take it upon ypurself to admonish comparative strangers on religious
topics; th« person tp whom you speak may bftve decided convictions of his own
in opposition to yours, and your over-zeal may seem to him an impertinence.

Dr. Todd has condensed a few rules from Cowper, from which we condense the
following:

Choose your company, as you do your books, for profit.

Study your company. If they are superiors, imbibe information; if not, impart.

Revive drooping conversation by introducing a topic of general inteiest.

When any helpful thing is said, retain it.

Bear with much impertinence. It will cure itself.

Be free, and try to make others the same.

GOOD MANNERS.

Politeness is loving thy neighbor as thyself, and showing it in actions.

Affectation is the foe of good breeding. Simple souls, with a smattering of
rules of etiquette, and no comprehension of the principles of good manners,
have caused many to undervalue a just knowledge of the principles and
applications that aid in furnishing the true lady or true gentleman. Many will
be helped by knowing that formal etiquette, such as the Japanese monarchs
extort from their subjects, has passed out of good society, and its place has
been filled with a reign of common sense and good will. Some people glory in
their rudeness, which they often dignify with the name of frankness. They seem
not to understand that the claims of good breeding are as radical and eternal
as the fundamental principles of morals.

The divine law of politeness is stated by the Great Teacher in these words, "As
ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise." Politeness
has been defined as "only an elegant form of justice," but it involves, also,
all the moral and social feelings. It is a sincere regard for the rights of
others, in the smallest matters as well as in the largest. It is kindness of
heart expressing itself. Good will, good taste and self-control are easily
matured into politeness. Kindly affectioned one toward another, is the great
secret of good manners.

Bishop Ames saw an Indian Chief at an official interview with President
Jackson. The Chief was as graceful as Henry Clay. The Bishop said to the Chief,
"How is it you are so graceful, never having studied etiquette?" The Chief
replied, "I have no mad talk in me now." Every Christian should be a gentleman
or a lady, measured by the etiquette of the thirteenth chapter of First
Corinthians. With the Spirit and good-will of the Master in the heart, the
refinements of the rules of good breeding are easy. For "politeness is
benevolence in little things."

The words gentleman and gentlewoman came originally from the fact that the
uncultivated and ignorant classes used coarse and loud tones, and rough words
and movements; while only the refined circles habitually used gentle tones and
gentle manners. For the same reason, those born in the higher circles were
called "of gentle blood." Thus it came that a coarse and loud voice and rough,
ungentle manners are regarded as vulgar and plebeian.

Good manners are important helps in the work of life. When we show ourselves
friendly we are always met by the same spirit. Politeness in the hourly
intercourse of life smooths away most of the rudeness that otherwise might jar
upon our nerves. The parent who instills into his child's mind and habits a
simple and clear comprehension of the more reasonable principles and rules of
good breeding, has bestowed both new endowments and opened doors for the
future.

American manners are said to be "a little free and easy," but a great
improvement upon the coldness of the Englishman. Our children need restraining,
but, taken all in all, we have great reason to congratulate ourselves on the
general good-will of Americans, and their desire to please people. This makes
us a nation of ladies and of gentlemen. It would be well to awaken both the
zeal of the saint and the pride of the patriot in making Americans the most
polite people under the stars.

Study, observation and experiment will easily make any one master of this great
accomplishment.

Good manners should be taught to children gradually, and with great patience
and gentleness, always enforced by example. Parents should begin with a few
principles with their application, and be steady and persevering with these
till a habit is formed, and then take a few more, thus making the process easy
and gradual. Otherwise the children, hopeless of fulfilling so many
requisitions, will become reckless and indifferent to all.

If a few brief, well-considered, and sensible rules of good breeding could be
suspended in every school-room, and the children be required to memorize and
practice them, it would do much to remedy the defects of American manners.

In presenting these rules we give you the result of a careful selection from a
variety of sources and books. We have sought to touch only the most common
points, which may be helpful in all homes.

TABLE MANNERS.

Cleanliness is the first element of decency anywhere, and especially at the
table. The person should be carefully cleansed and made presentable before
coming to the table. Some employments necessarily soil the hands and face «nd
clothes. Such soiling is honorable. A man should be clad suitably for his
business. But this makes no excuse for filthiness or slovenliness at the table.
Children should be trained, in preparing themselves for the table or for
appearance among the family, not only to put their hair, face, and hands in
neat order, but also their teeth and nails, and to attend habitually to their
nails whenever they wash their hands.

Children should be trained in the family, in order to perfect their manners for
the presence of strangers. If they are allowed to chatter while others are
talking, they are certain to annoy guests.

Table Rules.—Take your seat quietly at the table, sit firmly in your chair,
without lolling, leaning back, drumming, or other uncouth action.

Unfold your napkin, and lay it in your lap.

Eat soup delicately with a spoon, using your bread with your left haud.

Cut your food with your knife, but the fork is to be used to convey it to your
mouth. A spoon is employed for food that cannot be eaten with a fork. When
eating, take your fork or spoon in the right hand. Never use both hands to
convey any thing to your mouth.

Break your bread, not cut or bite it, spreading each piece with butter as you
eat it.

Your cup was made to drink from, and your saucer to hold the cup. It is not
well to drink any thing hot; if you drink tea or coffee, wait till it cools.

Eggs should be eaten from the shell, (chipping off a little of the larger end,)
with or without an egg-cup.

Be attentive to the wants of any lady who may be seated next to you, especially
where there are no servants, and pass any thing that may be needful to others.

There are some who insist that when a plate is sent to be replenished the knife
and fork must be laid together on the plate. But we are happy to say that idea
is being generally discarded. The knife and fork should be taken from the plate
when it is passed, and either held in the hand, or laid down with the tips
resting on the solitaire, butter-plate, or a piece of bread. The last way is
less awkward, and much more convenient than holding them in the hand.

When you have finished the course, lay your knife and fork on your piaio,
parallel to each other, with the handles toward your right hand.

Wipe your nose if needful. If necessary to blow it, or to spit, leave the
table. Never say or do any thing at table that is liable to produce disgust.

Little mistakes, and occasionally a troublesome accident, may occur at table.
Always meet them with quiet dignity and self-possession. Do not by undue
attention increase the embarrassment.

It is wall not to seem too much in haste to commence, as if you were

famishing, but neither is it necessary to wait till every body is served before
you commence.

It is perfectly proper to "take the last piece" if you want it, always
presuming that there is more of the same in reserve.

Table Improprieties.—Never reach over another person's plate.

Never stand up to reach distant articles, instead of asking to have them
passed.

Never use your own knife and spoon for butter, salt, or sugar, when it is the
custom of the family to provide separate utensils for the purpose.

Never set cups with the tea dripping from them on the table-cloth, instead of
the mats or small plates furnished.

Never eat fast, smacking the lips, nor make unpleasant sounds with the mouth.

Never put large or long pieces in the mouth.
Never open your mouth when chewing.
Never leave the table with food in the mouth.
Never attempt to talk with the mouth full.

Never look nor eat as if very hungry, or as if anxious to get at certain
dishes.

Never sit at too great a distance from the table.

Never lay the knife and fork on the table-cloth, instead of on the edge of the
plate.

Never make unnecessary noise with the knife and fork, or dishes.
Never pick the teeth at table.
Never whisper at table.

Never yawn nor stretch nor indicate restlessness at the table.
Never adjust the hair, clean, nor cut the nails.
Never soil the table-cloth if it is possible to avoid it.
Never carry away fruits and confectionery from the table.
Never encourage a dog or cat to play with you at the table.
Never explain at the table why certain foods do not agree with you.
Never come to the table in your shirt-sleeves, with dirty hands or dishev-
eled hair.

Never express a ohoice for any particular parts of a dish, unless requesied to
do so.

Never call loudly for the waiter, nor attract attention to yourself by
boisterous conduct.

Never hold bones in your fingers while you eat from them. Cut the meat with a
knife.

Never pare an apple, peach, or pear for another at the table, without holdmg it
with a fork.

Never put your salt, or any thing except bread, on the table-cloth.

Never wipe your fingers on the table-cloth, nor clean them in your mouth. Use
the napkin.

Never allow butter, soup, or other food to remain on your whiskers. Use the
napkin frequently.

Never wear gloves at the table, unless the hands from some special reason are
unfit to be seen.

Never, when serving others, overload the plate, nor force upon them delicacies
which they decline.

Never pour sauce over meat and vegetables when helping others. Place it at one
side on the plate.

Never make a display of finding fault with your food. Very quietly have it
changed if you want it different.

Never make a display when removing hair, insects, or other disagreeable things
from your food. Place them quietly under the edge of your plate.

Never make an effort to clean your plate or the bones you have been eating
from, too clean; it looks as if you left off hungry.

Never, at one's own table or at a dinner-party elsewhere, leave before the rest
have finished without asking to be excused. At a hotel or boarding house this
rule need not be observed.

Never feel obliged to cut off the kernels with a knife when eating green corn;
eaten from the cob, the corn is much the sweetest.

Never eat so much of any one article as to attract attention, as some people do
who eat large quantities of butter, sweet cake, cheese, or other articles.

Never spit out bones, cherry pits, grape skins, etc., upon your plate. Quietly
press them from your mouth upon the fork, and lay them upon the side of your
plate.

Never allow the conversation at the table to drift into any thing but chitchat;
the consideration of deep and abstruse principles will impair digestion.

Never permit yourself to engage in a heated argument at the table. Neither
should you use gestures, nor illustrations made with a knife or fork on the
table-cloth.

Never pass forward to another the dish that has been handed to you, unless
requested to do so; it may have been purposely designed for you, and passing it
to another may give him or her what is not wanted.

Never put your feet so far under the table as to touch those of the person on
the opposite side; neither should you curl them under nor at the side of your
chair.

Never praise extravagantly every dish set before you; neither should you appear
indifferent. Any article may have praise.

CHURCH MANNERS.

Be on time. No one has a right needlessly to disturb a congregation or a
preacher by being tardy.

Never look around to see who is coming in when the door opens. It diverts your
own and others' attention from the exercises, and is discourteous to the
leader.

Never talk or whisper in church, especially after the exercises are opened.

Never pull out your watch to see what time it is when the text is announced, or
during the sermon. Better to feed on a sermon than to time it.

Conform, if possible in conscience, to the usages of the church in which you
worship. Kneel, stand, bow, accordingly.

Never manifest your disapprobation of what is being said by unpleasant sounds,
or signs, or by hastily leaving.

Do not fidget, as though the service were a weariness.

Be quiet and decorous to the very end.

Do not put on your overcoat or adjust your wrappings till after the Doxology
has been sung.

No gentleman ever defiles a place of worship with tobacco.

Never be one of a staring crowd about the door or in the vestibule, before or
after service.

Do nothing out of keeping with the time, place, and purpose of a religious
assembly.

Let your politeness be positive. Invite the near stranger to a seat. Offer him
a hymn-book, or share with him your own. Be cordial to all. But do not be
offended if you are not specially noticed.

INTRODUCTIONS, HOW TO GIVE THEM.

It is neither necessary nor desirable to introduce every body to every body. An
introduction is a social indorsement, and you become, to a certain extent,
responsible for the person you introduce.

As a general rule, no gentleman should be presented to a lady without her
permission being previously obtained. Between gentlemen this formality ia not
always necessary, but you should have good reason to believe that the
acquaintance will be agreeable to both before introducing them.

When two men call upon a stranger on business, each should present the other

The inferior should be introduced to the superior, the gentleman to the lady,
as, "Miss A., permit me to introduce Mr. B." A lady may, however, be introduced
to a gentleman much her superior. Equals are mutually introduced; as, "Mr. W.,
allow me to make you acquainted with Mr. P.; Mr. P., Mr. W."

In presenting persons, be very careful to speak their names plainly; and on
being introduced to another, if you do not catch the name, say, without
hesitation, "I beg your pardon, I did not hear the name."

If you are the inferior, you will have too much self-respect to be the first to
extend the hand. In merely formal introductions, a bow is enough.

In introducing members of your own family, you should always mention the name.
Say, "My father, Mr. A.," "My daughter, Miss A.," or, "Misa Mary A." Your wife
is simply, "Mrs. A.;" and if there happens to be another Mrs. A. in the family,
she may be, "Mrs. A., my sister-in-law," etc.

If you are a gentleman, do not permit the lack of an introduction to prevent
you from promptly offering your services to an unattended lady, who may need
them. Take off your hat, and politely beg the honor of protecting, escorting,
or assisting her, and when the service has been accomplished, bow and retire.

SALUTATIONS, HOW TO MAKE THEM.

Salutation is the touchstone of good breeding. You will meet an intimate friend
with a hearty hand-shake, and an inquiry indicative of real interest in
reference to his health and that of bis family. To another person you bow
respectfully without speaking. But you should never come into the presence of
any person without some form of salutation.

It is a great fudeness not to return a salutation. The two best bred men in
England, Charles the Second and George the Fourth, never failed to take off
their hats to the meanest of their subjects. A greater than either, George
Washington, was wont to lift his hat even to the poor negro slave who took off
his.

RECEPTIONS. BEST METHODS.

The duty of receiving visitors usually devolves upon the mistress of the house,
and should be performed in an easy, quiet, and self-possessed manner, and
without any unnecessary ceremony.

When any one enters, whether announced or not, rise immediately and advance
toward him. If a young man, offer him an arm-chair; if an elderly man, imist 
upon his accepting it; if a lady, beg her to be seated upon the sofa.

If the master of the house receives the visitors, he will take a chair and
place himself at a little distance from them; if the mistress, and she is
intimate with the lady, she will sit near her.

If several persons corne at once, we give the most honorable place to the one
who is most entitled to respect. In winter the most honorable places are those
at the corners of the fireplace.

If the visitor is a stranger, the master or mistress rises, and any persons who
may be already in the room should do the same.

If some who are present withdraw, the master or mistress should conduct them as
far as the door. But whoever departs, if we have other company, we may dispense
with conducting farther than the door of the room.

VISITS AND CALLS.

There are visits of ceremony, congratulation, condolence, and friendship.
Visits of ceremony should be short.

Visits of congratulation are paid to a friend on the occurrence of any
particularly auspicious event in his family, or on his appointment to any
office or dignity.

Visits of condolence should be made within the week after the event which calls
for them. I

Visits of friendship are to be regulated by the peculiar laws of friendship and
the universal principles of good manners.

Visiting cards should be engraved or handsomely written. A written card is
preferable to a printed card. A gentleman's card should be of medium size,
unglazed, and plain. A lady's card may be larger and nicer, and may be
conveniently carried in a card-case. •

A gentleman attending ladies making morning calls or visits of ceremony should
ring the bell, follow the ladies in, and be the last to greet—unless he has to
introduce.

In terminating the call he should be the last to rise, the last to part, and
should follow the ladies out.

A morning call being brief, a gentleman may hold his hat, and a lady may keep
on her things.

Of course, soiled overshoes and wet wraps should be left outside the reception
room.

A gentleman attending ladies should seldom if ever be seated while they are
standing.

A gentleman attending should be prompt to serve them as to their parcels,
parasols, shawls, etc.

Do not stare around the room.

Do not take a dog or small child.

Do not linger at the dinner-hour.

Do not fidget with your cane, hat or parasol.

Do not make a call of ceremony on a wet day. Do not turn your back to one
seated near you. Do not touch the piano unless invited to do so. Do not make a
display of consulting your watch. Do not handle ornaments or furniture in the
room. Do not go to the room of an invalid, unless invited. Do not remove the
gloves when making a formal call. Do not continue the call longer when
conversation begins to lag. Do not remain when you find the lady upon the point
of going out. Do not make the first call, if you are a new-comer in the
neighborhood. Do not open or shut doors or windows, or alter the arrangement of
the room.

Do not enter a room without first knocking and receiving an invitation to come
in.

Do not resume your seat after having risen to go, unless for important reasons.

Do not walk around the room, examining pictures, while waiting for the hostess.

Do not introduce politics, religion or weighty topics for conversation when
making calls.

Do not prolong the call if the room is crowded. It is better to call a day or
two afterward.

Do not call upon a person in reduced circumstances with a display of wealth,
dress and equipage.

Do not tattle. Do not speak ill of your neighbors. Do not carry gossip from one
family to another.

Do not, If a lady, call upon a gentleman, except officially or professionally
unless he may be a confirmed invalid.

Do not take a strange gentleman with you, unless positively certain that his
introduction will be received with favor.

In calling, if the person you desired to see is " engaged " or " not at home,"
leave your card. If several persons, leave a card for each, or request that
your compliments be presented to them severally.

If you are going abroad to be absent for some time, and want to take leave
ceremoniously, write on your cards T. T. L. [to take leave] or P. P. C, [pour
prendre conge,] inclose in envelopes, and address them to your friends. In
taking leave of a family, send as many cards as you would if making an ordinary
visit.

In calling on a friend at a hotel, do not visit his room till, having announced
yourself by card, he bids you come. If he is out, add your address to your
card, and leave it for him.

If in making an evening visit you happen to find a party assembled, present
yourself as yon would have done had you been invited. Converse with case for a
few moments, and then retire.

In general, visits should be returned personally or by card, just as you would
speak when spoken to, or answer a respectful letter.

HOSTS AND GUESTS.

Hosts should give their gtiests the home-feeling. If a host, do not worry your
guests, but let them alone. You should not by over-attentions make them realize
they are not at home, and perhaps wish they were.

Promote their convenience and comfort, and open to them reasonable sources of
entertainment and improvement, but in such an easy, graceful way as will make
it seem no trouble to you, but a pleasure.

You should not let their presence causelessly interfere with your domestic
arrangements. Inform them as to the hour for meals and family worship, for
retiring and riaing—whether there will be a rising-bell. You should let them
see that they fall as it were naturally into vacant places in the home circle.

Your rooms and table should be furnished hospitably, but not extravagantly. If
any thing extraordinary renders an apology necessary, make it at once, and
cease. Do not disgust by depreciating your preparations and "regretting " that
you have not better.

When they speak of leaving, you will of course express any desire you feel to
have them stay longer, but do not urge them against their and your sense of
propriety and duty.

Guests should show their hosts the home-feeling. When a guest, learn as
quickly, and conform as fully, as possible to your host's family customs. It is
better for you by a little thought and attention to adjust yourself to their
household arrangements than for some of them to be inconvenienced, it may be,
in their avocations.

By keeping your room tidy, and your articles of dress in order, you will add to
their appreciation of you. If they lack help, you may readily find ways of
rendering them considerate service.

Appointments. Be exact in keeping all appointments.

If you make in appointment with another at your own house, devote your time
solely to him.

If you accept an appointment at the house of a public officer or a man of
business, be very punctual; transact the affair with dispatch, and retire the
moment it is finished.

At a dinner or supper to which you have accepted an invitation, be strictly
punctual. Do not arrive much before the time nor any after. If too late on an
occasion where ceremony is required, send in your card with an apology, and
retire.

Dinner parties. On receiving an invitation answer at once, positively
accepting, or declining with "regrets."

Be punctual. Do not keep the dinner waiting. Better be too late for the train 1

A gentleman may offer his arm to a lady, and conduct her to the diningroom, the
hostess leading the way, and the others following—giving precedence to age or
other reasons for i espect. A lady takes the left arm of the gentleman.

At the table the lady of the house sits at the head and the gentleman of the
house opposite. The places of honor for gentlemen are next the mistress of the
house, and for ladies next the master of the house, the right hand being the
place of special honor. Husbands and wives or other near relatives may be
seated apart for more general conversation.

Nothing on the table should be disturbed till "grace " is said. Then the
napkins are spread.

In "waiting," the general rule is to serve from right to left. If two or more
wait, the sides may be served at once.

The principal meats are often carved on a side-table, and served by attendants.

Serve pies with forks, puddings and tarts with spoons. If "finger-bowls" are
used, dip the fingers and wipe with the colored napkin.

Interchange civilities and thoughts with those near you.

Evening parties. Evening parties are various, and in general, ceremonious as
they are fashionable.

Having accepted the invitation, do not fail to be present if you can reasonably
avoid it.

A married man should never accept a lady's invitation to a party, unless his
wife is included in the invitation.

On entering a drawing-room where there is a party, salute the lady of the house
before speaking to any other. Then mingle with the company, salute your
acquaintances. Conversations may be held with others without the formality of
an introduction.

If a guest desires to withdraw before the company disperses, he should do so as
quietly and as unobserved as proper respect for the hosts will permit.

Christmas. It is a commendable custom to celebrate the anniversary of the birth
of Christ. The occasion is peculiarly appropriate for family gatherings, and
for the exchange of presents. There are no customs connected with the day
requiring special discussion here.

The New Tear. In New York and other cities, every gentleman is expected to call
on his lady acquaintances on New Year's day, and each lady who receives calls
must be prepared to do the honors of her house.

Of late years it has become fashionable for ladies in many cities and villages
to announce in the newspapers the fact of their intention to receive calls upon
New Year's day, which practice is very excellent, as it enables gentlemen to
know positively who will be prepared to receive them on that occasion; besides,
changes of residence are so frequent in the large cities as to make the
publication of names and places of calling of great convenience.

The practice of issuing personal notes of invitation is not to be commended. It
looks very much like begging the gentlemen to come and see them.

Upon calling, the gentlemen are invited to remove overcoat and hat, which
invitation is accepted unless it is designed to make the call very brief. If
refreshments are provided, the ladies will desire to have the gentlemen partake
of them, which cannot conveniently be done in overcoat, with hat in hand.
Gloves are sometimes retained upon the hand during the call, but this is
optional. Cards are sent up, and the gentlemen are ushered into the
reception-room. The call should not exceed ten or fifteen minutes, unless the
callers are few, and it should be mutually agreeable to prolong the stay.

Best taste will suggest that a lady having the conveniences shall receive her
guests at her own home, but it is admissible and common for several ladies to
meet at the residence of one, and receive calls together. In fact, it is
pleasant for two or more ladies to receive together, as several ladies can the
more easily entertain a party of several gentlemen who may be present at one
time. Whether ladies make announcement or not, however, it will be usually safe
for gentlemen to call on their lady friends on New Year's, as the visit will be
generally received with pleasure.

It is customary for the ladies who announce that they will receive, to make
their parlors attractive on that day, and present themselves in full dress.
They should have a bright, cheerful fire if the weather is cold, and a table,
conveniently located in the room, with refreshments, consisting of fruits,
cakes, bread, and other food, such as may be deemed desirable, with tea and
coffee. No intoxicating drinks should be allowed. Refreshments are in no case
absolutely essential. They can be dispensed with if not convenient.

Ladies expecting calls on New Year's should be in readiness to receive from 10
A. M. to 9 P. M. While gentlemen may go alone, they also frequently go in
pairs, threes, fours or more. They call upon all the ladic.j of the party, and
where any are not acquainted, introductions take place, care being taken that
persons do not intrude themselves where they would not be welcome. Each
gentleman should be provided with a large number of cards with hia own name
upon each, one of which he will present to every lady of the company where he
calls.

The ladies keep these cards for future reference, it being often pleasant to
revive the incidents of the day by subsequent examination of the cards received
upon that occasion.

An usher should be present wherever many calls are expected, to receive guests,
and care for hats and coats. The calls arc necessarily very brief, and are made
delightfully pleasant by continual change of face and conversation. But however
genial and free may be the interchange of compliments upon this occasion, no
young man who is a stranger to the family should feel at liberty to call again
without a subsequent invitation.

The two or three days succeeding New Year's are the ladies' days for calling,
upon which occasion they pass the compliments of the season, comment upon the
incidents connected with the festivities of the holiday, the number of calls
made, and the new faces that made their appearance among the visitors. It is
customary upon this occasion of ladies' meeting to offer refreshments, and to
enjoy the intimacy of a friendly visit.

WEDDINGS.

It is well to know that custom gives the parties full liberty to follow their
tastes in the style and order of their ceremony.

For a stylish wedding, two or more brides-maids and two or more groomsmen are
expected to be in attendance.

For a formal wedding in the evening, invitations should be given at least a
week before the occasion. The lady fixes the day. Her mother or nearest female
relative invites the guests.

It is a common practice in a well-ordered wedding in the home for the guests to
assemble in the parlors, leaving a vacant space at the end selected for the
ceremony. At the appointed time the bridal party come into the parlor in the
following order: The second brides-maid and groomsman, if there are only two,
enter the room first; then the first brides-maid and first groomsman, and
lastly the bride and bridegroom. The officiating clergyman meets them so as to
stand before them as they take their position on the floor.

When the ceremony is performed in the church, (the best place for it,) the
officiating clergyman takes his seat in the chancel or inside the altar, and as
the party come up the aisle in the order given above, he rises and pasjes to
his position, and the party form in front of the altar; the bride and groom in
the center, the bride at the groom's left hand, the brides-maids at her left
and the groomsmen at the right of the bridegroom. Sometimes the first
brides-maid and groomsman are stationed at the left of the bride, and the
second brides-maid and groomsman at the right of the bridegroom.

Sometimes, following the brides-maids and groomsmen, the bride's mother comes
to the altar on the arm of the bridegroom, followed by the bride supported by
her father. In this case, during the ceremony the parents stand near and a
little back of the bride.

Whatever order of approach to the altar is selected, the ceremony at the altar
can most appropriately follow the ritual of the Church where the ceremony is
performed, or of the clergyman officiating. The wish of the bride is supreme in
these matters.

In the ceremony, if the ring is used, at the proper time the bride gives her
left hand to her first maid, who removes the glove. Meantime the bridegroom
hands the ring (a plain gold ring) to the clergyman, who holds it till the
bride's hand is uncovered, then the clergyman hands the ring to the bridegroom,
who puts it upon the third finger of the bride's left hand. Then the ceremony
proceeds according to the ritual.

It is proper, if the bride prefers, to have only ushers without brides-maids,
or to have brides-maids without ushers or groomsmen.

The exquisite order changes with the fancy of each elegant couple.

When the ceremony is ended, the friends remain in their places till the bridal
party has left the church. The bridal party, in retiring, reverses the order of
their entrance; the groom always leads the way with his bride.

If the ceremony is performed in the house, when it is ended, the company
present their congratulations—the clergyman first, then the mother and the
father of the bride and the relatives, then the company; the groomsmen acting
as masters of ceremonies, bringing forward and introducing the ladies, who wish
the happy couple joy, happiness, prosperity.

The bridegroom takes an early occasion to thank the clergyman, and to put in
his hand, at the same time, nicely enveloped, a piece of gold, according to his
ability and generosity.

FUNERALS.

When any member of a family dies, it is customary to send informatfon and
invitation to all who have been connected with the deceased in business or
friendship. No answer is required.

At an interment or funeral service, the members of the family have the first
places. They are nearest to the coffin, whether in the procession or in the
church. No mourning dresses are required.

In general, ministers ought not to be expected to go to the grave, unless it is
near by. Others who are not relatives or intimate friends of the deceased are
excused from accompanying the procession. The first carriage is for the
officiating clergyman if he goes to the grave, then follow the pall-bearers,
next the hearse, after that the mourners and friends.

IMPORTANT RULES OF CONDUCT.

Always be respectful and deferential to your parents and superiors. The fifth
commandment has not been revoked.

Always be polite and courteous to your sisters and brothers.

Remember that the delicate attentions and tender expressions of the lover
should not cease after marriage.

Mutual kindness and regard between employers and employed, besides being right,
would promote the interests of both capital and labor.

IT IS POLITE:

To inquire courteously after the family and friends of those you meet, and to
manifest an interest in them;

To devote a little space in every letter to "remembrances" for friends;

To write occasionally to all from whom you have received special kindnesses;

To conform your dress, and (in reason) your customs to the tastes and feelings
of those whose guest or associate you may be;

To inquire after any one of whose acquaintance your friend may have reason to
be proud;

To express felt interest in or admiration of those dear to him;

To avoid all remarks which tend to embarrass, vex, mortify, or in any way annoy
the feelings of another;

To avoid combating another's religious opinions or politics;

To make ready sacrifices of comfort, as to escort a lady, or help a neighbor;

To avoid all practical jokes;

To avoid noticing personal defects;

To attend closely when addressed in conversation;

To avoid contradicting flatly;

To acknowledge by word or manner all acts of kindness and courtesy even from
relatives;

To apologize heartily when you have injured another, or hurt his feelings; To
show the utmost kindness to those who have been reduced by adversity; To
interpose and shield another from mortification and wounded selfrespect;

To do every thing for another which will gratify him and is not unreasonable.
Never—

Never look over the shoulder of another who is reading or writing.
Never arrest the attention of an acquaintance by a touch. Spoak to him.

Never, when traveling abroad, be over boastful in praise of your own country.

Never exaggerate.

Never answer questions in general company that have been put to others. Never
point at another.

Never call attention to the features or form of any one present. Never call a
new acquaintance by the Christian name unless requested to do so.

Never appear to notice a scar, deformity, or defect of any one present.
Never wantonly frighten others.

Never exhibit anger, impatience, or excitement when an accident happens.
Never leave home with unkind words.
Never neglect to call upon your friends.

Never punish your child for a fault to which you are addicted yourself.
Never laugh at the misfortunes of others.

Never lend an article you have borrowed, unless you have permission to do so.

Never give a promise that you do not fulfill.

Never enter a room noisily; never fail to close the door after you, and never
slam it.

Never send a present, hoping for one in return.
Never pick the teeth or clean the nails in company.

Never be guilty of the contemptible meanness of opening a private letter
addressed to another.

Never question a servant or child about family matters.

Never associate with bad company. Have good company or none.

Never will a gentleman allude to conquests which he may have made with ladies.

Never present a gift, saying that is of no use to yourself.
Never fail, if a gentleman, of being civil and polite to ladies.
Never refer to a gift you have made or favor you have rendered.
Never fail to give a polite answer to a civil question.
Never read letters which you may find addressed to others.
Never betray a confidence.

Never attempt to draw the attention of the company constantly upon yourself.

Never pass between two persons who are talking together, without an apology.

Never forget that, if you are faithful in a few things, you may be ruler over
many.

Never exhibit too great familiarity with the new acquaintance; you may give
offense.

Never fail to offer the easiest and best seat in the room to an invalid, an
elderly person, or a lady.

Never neglect to perform the commission which the friend intrusted to you. You
must not forget.

Never send your guest, who is accustomed to a warm room, off into a cold, damp,
spare bed, to sleep.

Never enter a room filled with people, without a slight bow to the general
company when first entering.

Never leave a room with your back to the company.

Never fail to answer an invitation, either personally or by letter, within a
week after the invitation is received.

Never accept of favors and hospitalities without rendering an exchange of
civilities when opportunity offers.

Never cross the leg and put out one foot in the street-car, or places where it
will trouble others when passing by.

Never fail to tell the truth. If truthful, you get your reward. You will get
your punishment if you deceive.

Never borrow money and neglect to pay. If you do, you will soon be known as a
person of no business integrity.

Never write to another asking for information, or a favor of any kind, without
inclosing a postage stamp for the reply.

Never fail to say kind and encouraging words to those whom you meet in
distress. Your kindness may lift them out of their despair.

Never refuse to receive an apology. You may not revive friendship, bui courtesy
will require, when an apology is offered, that you accept it.

Never examine the cards in the card-basket. While they may be exposed in the
drawing-room, you are not expected to turn them over unless invited to do so.

Never, when walking arm and arm with a lady, be continually changing and going
to the other side, because of change of comers. It shows too much attention to
form.

Never should the lady accept of expensive gifts at the hand of a gentleman not
engaged to her. Gifts of flowers, books, music or confectionery may be
accepted.

Never insult another by harsh words when applied to for a favor. Kind words do
not cost much, and yet they may carry untold happiness to the one or whom they
are spoken.

Never fail to speak kindly. If a merchant, and you address your clerk; if an
overseer, and you address your workmen; if in any position where you exercise
authority, you show yourself to be a gentleman by your pleasant mode of
address.

Never attempt to convey the impression that you are a genius by imitaring the
faults of distinguished men. Because certain great men were poor penmen, wore
long hair, or had other peculiarities, it does not follow that you will be
great by imitating their eccentricities.

Never give all your pleasant words and smiles to strangers. The kindest words
and the sweetest smiles should be reserved for home. Home should be our heaven.

AMUSEMENTS. THEIR IMPORTANCE.

The way to keep the enemy out of the fort is to occupy it yourself. If the
street and the grocery are not to occupy the time and attention of your boys,
the home must. There have been too many children in the world to leave it an
open question that they must have some amusement. It is now simply a question
as to what amusements are most suitable. Even if authority keeps the children
in-doors, something more subtle must keep evil thoughts from rioting in their
minds. Cheerfulness in the home makes it attractive, and gives its ideas great
advantage in the strife for control.

When amusements become sinful. When they fail to prepare body or mind for the
better discharge of duties.

When they interfere with duties or employments.

When they produce excessive fatigue, weary the mind, or deprive of necessary
sleep.

When they tend to injure the health or physical constitution.
When they tend to weaken the intellectual powers.
When they give a distaste for moral and religious truth.

When tJiey turn on an element of chance.

When they require public patronage for their maintenance.
When they inflict needless pain.

When they cause fright or vexation to people or animals.
When they endanger life.

When by their exciting nature, or their connection with temptation, they tend
to harm the individual or community.

HOME ENTERTAINMENT.

Provide in the home not only instructive, but also entertaining reading. The
philosophers in the family are not the difficult questions. They care for
themselves. You must arrange to entertain those who will not grapple with hard
reading or dry books. A good story may induce them to read, and, reading, they
can be led to better books. While it is true that any good author will awaken
inquiries which can be satisfied only by research,

it is still necessary to select the stories with great care. Stories that
present some historical characters, and thus become a center in the memory for
locating other events of an age, are good bait for a child without taste for
reading. It is true that the parables are inventions, but they partake more of
the character of high moral instruction than of amusement.

Provide a good supply of pictures and toys for very young children. It is not
extravagant, as it may seem. It fills their time, keeps out bad thoughts,
quickens their faculties, and prevents evils that can be corrected only with
great labor and pains.

Enter into the sports of your children. Lyman Beecher was a champion racer on
all fours with a child on his back.

Lead the children to cultivate fruits and flowers. It develops the love of the
beautiful, and gives opportunity and means for blessing other people.

Cultivate music, instrumental and vocal. It cheers the home. Collect shells,
plants, and specimens in geology and mineralogy.

Not to weary as a study, but to interest the children in studying the
specimens, and learning all about them. Encourage all sorts of harmless games,
which tend to quicken the observation, strengthen the memory, or develop the
body. Tableaux and charades give much amusement, and call forth a good deal of
ingenuity and intelligence, and there are various games invented—literary,
historical, geographical, and so forth—which are very cheap, and which convey a
good deal of useful information. It is amusing to give out a word, and call
upon every one to make two or more rhyming lines containing that word. Spelling
matches are very lively and profitable, and when the company is disposed to be
grave, a word such as "tree" or "water" might be given out, and every one be
asked to mention where it is found in the Bible.

Give the boys boxes of tools. It develops their mechanical skill and ingenuity.

Give little girls dolls, and nice large dolls to larger girls. With this'
incentive they will speedily be introduced into the intricacies of dressmaking,
millinery, and housekeeping more easily than in any other way.

Interest the children in decorating the home. It is a good investment to
furnish them materials with which to make little ornaments for the house. Put
emphasis on the value these things possess because made by themselves.

Celebrate birthdays and holidays and anniversaries. It adds to home's
attractiveness for a child to feel that there is one place where they are glad
that he ever came.

As far as possible let each child have a companion near its own age, with
congenial tastes. It gives a chance to draw upon some forces outside of the
family.

Use hospitality. Keep your home open to the good and wise. Your children and
yourself will gain much information by meeting people at your table. The
unwritten history in things is always the most instructive. God urges
hospitality more than any other social duty. It combines the benevolence of the
Church with the instruction of the university.

Establish a reading circle. Have this meet in your home if you can, or in the
Church or some home of the Church. A dozen or more young men and women of
congenial tastes, habits, and social belongings, can easily meet once during
every week through five or six months of the year. With a small fund they can
buy good books, and over these, read aloud by one and another of their number,
they can spend an hour and a half most pleasantly and profitably. They will
find in these books topics of conversation for the remainder of the time they
spend together. These gatherings may be varied with music and the use of the
various gifts of the members—original compositions, declamations, and the like.

Keep up family relations after leaving the home. Some have adopted the
following practice: On the first day of each month some member of the family,
at the extreme point of dispersion, fills a part of a page. This is sealed and
mailed to the next member, who reads it, adds another contribution, and then
mails it to the next. Thus the family circular once a month goes from each
extreme to all the members of a widely dispersed family, and each member
becomes a sharer in the joys, sorrows, plans, and pursuits of all the rest.

HOW AND WHAT TO READ.

We live among books to find the good, the beautiful, and the true in them, and
by them to be inspired and led into the heart of nature and into the soul of
mankind. A few hints in this labyrinth is better than a master. Indiscriminate
reading will give much information and lose more. It fixes no centers around
which future acquisitions crystallize.

A course of reading should develop all the intellectual faculties.

A few books may give culture. Poverty, preventing you from buying many costly
books, need not keep you from undertaking the culture of your mind. Lincoln
read chiefly the Bible and Shakspeare. Good books can be frequently re-read
with profit.

Choosing books is important business. A single book may make or mar a life.
Voltaire learned an infidel poem when he was five years old, and it molded his
life. Hume, when a boy, took the infidel side of a question in a debating
society, and cast his die. What books will you let come into the place of your
parents and friends?

Youth should be left to themselves in the selecting of books no more than in
the selecting of companions.

The desirableness of books depends upon their truth to nature, their euphony,
language, ideas, and vigor. The best books are those that elevate the character
by moving the heart.

Some books should be read, whether we like them or not, because they are
necessary to education and culture.

Some books should be read because they are so often alluded to by other writers
and in general conversation.

One should be thoroughly acquainted with the books and names of the authors of
his own land. Patriotism should lead a man to know the. glory in the midst of
which he lives.

Read occasionally good essays, biographies, standard books of travel, and a
little standard fiction. Sometimes too protracted reading of heavy histories
wearies the purpose of the uncultured, and the mind refuses to hold the
results. Change of diet is good for body and mind.

Let each prominent fact become a center of arrangement for other facts. When
the piles are thus driven, it is wonderful how soon the sea washes in a new
formation and foundation for future building. Every book, and almost every
paper, will add something to the stock of knowledge.

Some find a blank book and a pencil good companions in reading. Thus, marked
passages can be retained for reference, or impressed on the mind by the work of
writing.

If convenient, read with a friend. Discussion clears and fixes in the mind what
you read.

Read aloud portions of every book. It enables you to test the style of the
author.

Never read second-class stories. They steal the time and weaken the mind.

Never read what you do not wish to remember.

HEALTH.

HEALTH AT HOME.

Health is Wealth.—Health is one of the foundation pillars of happiness in the
home. It is a condition of the best instruction and the best education. It is
an essential preliminary to the best success in the best work, and to the
highest attainment in the widest usefulness. Without it there is sadness at the
hearth-stone, silence and sorrow, instead of cheerful words and happy hearts.

"A clear bright eye,

That can pierce the sky
With the strength of an eagle's vision;

And a steady brain,

That can bear the strain
And the shock of the world's collision;—

"A well-knit frame

With the ruddy flame
AgiOW, and the pulses leaping

With the measured time

Of a dulcet rhyme,
Their beautiful record keeping;—

"A rounded cheek,

Where the roses speak
Of a soil that is rich for thriving,

And a chest so grand

That the lungs expand
Exultant, without the striving;—

"A breath like morn,

When the crimson dawn
Is fresh in its dewy sweetness;

A manner bright,

And a spirit light
With joy in own completeness;—

"O give me these,

Nature's harmonies,
And keep all your golden treasures;

For what is wealth

To the boon of health,
And its sweet attendant pleasures!"

What are fortunes and honors in the absence of the future health and vigor of
our loved ones? What is home itself, where disease abides as a permanent
visitor, and poisons every perfume with a malarious infection?

Special Home Ministry.—An eloquent French author correctly savs that the whole
of maternity is comprised in these four words: "Blood, food, care, devotion."
Paternity is an equal sharer here, both as to privilege and responsibility.
What ministry is more delicate, more difficult, and more sublime? What work is
greater than to give to coming parent and citizen a sound body, a strong mind,
and a good heart?

This Ministry Must Begin Early.—There is an old Spanish proverb that "What
enters with swaddling, comes out only with the shroud." Wordsworth truthfully
wrote in rhyme, "The child is father of the man." Manhood inherits childhood.
Parentage is responsible for the character and value of the inheritance.

This Ministry Illustrated.—" Behold a man!" said Napoleon to his officers when
he first met Goethe, who was the embodiment of physical and mental vigor. The
great poet lived to a great age, working on beyond his fourscore years, and
remaining "robust and energetic to the last," says his biographer, after he had
seen three generations swept by him to the grave. When he died—at eighty-four
—the medical authorities at Weimar, being curious to learn the physiological
problem of such great work at such an advanced age, made a post-mortem 
examination, which showed that all the internal as well as the external organs
of the body were in "perfect condition." And yet Goethe was feeble and sickly
in childhood. Parental care, in the direction of thorough hygienic culture,
with his own resolution to indulge in not a single sinful habit superadded,
brought strength, and life, and usefulness.

Another Illustration.—Alexander von Humboldt was another example of the good
fruits of early and wisely directed health training. Hence it was that his
biographers were able to present him to the world as "the Corypheus of physical
science, and a man of universal culture; a man also of 'society,' and of
courtly life." He crowded into his ninety years of successful life whole
centuries of the life and toil of other men with equal natural endowment, but
less carefully and less wisely trained. On the 3d of May, 1859, the journals of
Berlin announced: "Alexander von Humboldt has been confined to his bed the last
twelve days; his strength has been gradually failing, his mind retaining all
its clearness.''' In three days more, writes Dr. Abel Stevens, as the sunlight
poured into his window, he exclaimed, "How grand those rays! Tbey seem to
beckon earth to heaven!" and died. For twenty yeare or more of the time in
which men are usually said to be beyond "the allotted period of life," when
they usually decay mentally, he was

writing the "Cosmos," the grandest work of his life, and one of the greatest of
his generation. Sanitary work is brain work; and the successful brain work of
mature age is the inheritance of the most careful sanitary work in the nursery
of an intelligent home.

CHOOSING A PHYSICIAN.

Select the Physician Early.—Choose him, if possible, before he is needed. There
is time for the greater care in the selection. There come emergencies in every
home. If no selection has then been made, the messenger may rush from door to
door seeking help from the first one met. There may then be no time for
discrimination, and the practitioner maybe one of doubtful excellence. The
questions involved may be too important for such hurry.

Select a Physician of Integrity.—No amount of medical or surgical skill can
compensate for the lack of good morals and a scrupulous conscience. The
relation is too intimate and sacred for the admission of any one of doubtful
habits or reputation. Shun the physician of bad habits, as you would a person
bearing the infection of yellow fever or the plague. Is he "only a drunkard 1"
Pity him; try to reform him; be a "Good Samaritan " to him; but do not trust to
his professional services, which demand a clear head and a firm hand.

Choose a Physician of Clean Lips.—No one of impure speech, of reckless or even
careless words, or hints bordering on the obscene or immodest or vulgar, should
find a place, even professionally, in any home. Don't excuse such a fault and
pass it by with the expression, "O he means well!" In nine cases out of ten
such a man does not mean well, and if he does, his immodest expressions are so
unnecessary, and so directly in conflict with the best teachings and with the
best practice of his profession, as to leave him without the least possible
excuse for their utterance. Mothers, sisters, fathers, brothers, invite no such
person, even professionally, to your home, and if, by any lack of information,
or by any mistake of judgment, he may have come there, see to it that his
visits are not repeated.

He should be Able, and Thorough as a Student, and of Untiring Industry in his
Profession.—The trusts placed in his keeping include that of life itself. They
demand the most intelligent, capable, and devoted service. That service may not
rest with even the best knowledge of the best teachers. The new phases of
diseases, and the new information furnished by additional observation and
experiment, must be constantly sought for and promptly appropriated for the
benefit of his patrons.

Which School of Medicine should be Preferred ?—We cannot tell. Our own personal
preferences may not be the best for others. We may not intrude them uninvited
into the home circles of our friends. Their prejudices, like ours, may be the
result in part of early education and in part of personal observation. There
are other questions more important than those which determine the physician's
school of medicine. In their light does he measure up to the line required 1

Having Chosen Him, Give Him your Confidence.—A good physician will repay in
thoroughness and zeal what is awarded him in ready and unmistaken confidence.
However strong in his own convictions and rigidly earnest in his professional
work, he is sensitive almost to a fault. A word or a look of mistrust
disheartens him in his work; while a word or a look of unreserved trust becomes
an inspiration to an intense zeal for the patient.

Having Chosen Him, Be Considerate of his Time and Rest.—His season for sleep
and for recreation should be respected. In case of necessity it may be
appropriately disturbed, but "before doing it," says a well known medical
writer, "one should think twice." "It is his trade" is a harsh expression, and
unworthv of considerate and devoted patients. Consider carefully your
physician's hours for repose, for meals, and for church, and then care for him
as you would have him care for you. Such appreciative care on your part will be
reciprocated by him a hundred-fold.

Don't Abuse his Confidence by Trivial Calls.—If you run for him on

every slight indisposition, and with unnecessary alarm excite his solicitude,
and lead him to disarrange his regular plans of visitation, he will soon learn
to place a lower estimate upon your demands, and to respond to them with less
promptness and solicitude. "Physicians dread fussy mothers."

The Physician in the Intervals of Sickness.—We quote from the observations of
Prof. Poussagrieves of Paris: "There is another mistake, which I must point out
to mothers, (without, however, slighting the fathers, they may well believe)
—that, namely, of looking upon the physician, once chosen, as having no part or
function in the family except when illness calls him there. It is a very narrow
and a very dangerous conception of his rSU, and one which simply ignores one
half of practical medicine, that is, hygiene. It is said that the Chinese pay
their physicians with a liberality proportioned to their freedom from sickness
during the year. I do not advise that we should imitate the Chinese; but this
stimulus to hygienic care certainly smacks of the judicious. We make our first
appearance in families to take charge of pa% tients, many grave questions being
resolved without our participation. Children often receive a guidance the
reverse of what is proper, and we are called upon to fulfill the ungrateful
office of repairing the damages we might generally have prevented."

It is Better to Care for a Man's Health than for his Disease.—"I would that the
relations of physicians with their, families were established on such a footing
that the former should make visits as often as they should judge necessary for
the prevention of disease. This would be a very precious protective measure. To
select a good physician, to put the health of the whole household into his
keeping, to expect of him ordinarily, besides unforeseen calls, a visit at
certain intervals—once a month for instance—how comforting would it be for the
parental conscience?"

Why do Successful Medical Men often die Prematurely ?—This question is
satisfactorily answered by Dr. Bennett: "Mortality in the medical profession
after fifty years is greater than in any other profession, and greatest of all
among its most eminent and successful members. The peculiar feature of the
medical profession is, that work increases with age, and the public do not
consent to look upon ageing medical men as veterans, but expect from them to
the end the labor of youth. . . . The barrister has his junior counsel who
prepares his briefs, the solicitor his head clerks, the vicar his curates,
etc., but the successful consulting physician or surgeon must stand alone,
whatever his age, and do his work entirely himself as long as he practices."

The Physician Should be Reverential.—If that profound naturalist, Agassiz,
surrounded by his pupils in his laboratory, where were the fossils representing
the past ages of life, would not enter upon his work without first uncovering
his head in silent prayer to God, how should a physician feel on entering the
mysterious chamber where disease and health, life and death, time and eternity,
are brought into juxtaposition. If we speak of responsibility in connection
with other professions, how immeasurably greater is the responsibility
connected with the medical profession!

Qualities of a Good Doctor by a Doctor.—Here is a very suggestive summary of
hints covering the question of choosing a physician. It has the authority of an
experienced and able member of the profession. Read and ponder:—

Avoid the mean man, for you may be sure he will be a mean doctor, just as
certainly as he would make a mean husband.

Avoid a dishonest man; he will not be honest with you as your physician.

Shun the doctor that you can buy to help you out of a scrape; a good doctor
cannot be bought.

Avoid the untidy, coarse, blundering fellow, though he may bear the parchments
of a medical college.

Avoid the doctor who flatters you, and humors your lusts and appetites.

Avoid the man who puts on an extra amount of airs; be assured that it ia done
to cover his ignorance

Avoid the empty blow-horn, who boasts of his numerous cases, »nd tells you of
his seeing forty or fifty patients a day, while he spends two hours to convince
you of the fact. Put him down for a fool.

To be a doctor one must first be a man in the true sense of the word.

He should be a moral man, honest in his dealings.

He must have good sense, or he cannot be a good doctor.

He should be strictly temperate. No one should trust his life in the hands of
an intemperate doctor.

He must have some mechanical genius, or it is impossible for him to be a good
surgeon.

It is a good sign if he tells you how to keep well.

It is a good sign if the members of his own family respect him.

It is a good sign if the children like him.

It is a good sign if he is neat and handy at making pills and folding powders.

It is a good sign if he is still a student, and keeps posted in all the latest
imprbvements known to the profession for alleviating human suffering.

PREVENTION OF DISEASE.

Early and Strange Notions of Disease.—It was supposed formerly that diseases
were caused by the evil spirits or demons which were supposed to have entered
the body and deranged its action. Hence it was said of the dumb that they had a
" dumb devil." Incantations, exorcisms, etc., were constantly resorted to in
order to drive them out. It was thought by others that diseases came
arbitrarily, or as a special visitation of an overruling power, and hence they
were to be removed by fasting and prayer.

What is Disease ?—Modern science teaches us that disease is not a thing, but a
state or condition. When our food is properly assimilated, the waste matter
promptly excreted, and all the organs working in perfect harmony, we are well;
but when any derangements of these functions occur, we are sick. Sickness is
discord, while health is concord. If we abuse or misuse any instrument, we
destroy its ability to produce a perfect harmony. A suffering body is simply
the penalty of violated law, and follows as necessarily as an effect follows a
cause.

Many Diseases may be Avoided.—A large proportion of the ills which « now
afflict and rob us of so much time and enjoyment might easily be avoided. A
proper knowledge and observance of hygienic laws would greatly lessen the
number of such diseases as pneumonia, consumption, catarrh, gout, rheumatism,
scrofula, dyspepsia, etc. It is a lamentable fact that in densely populated
cities nearly one half of the children die before they are five years old.
Every physiologist knows that at least nine tenths of these lives could be
saved by an observance of the laws of health. Professor Bennett, of Edinburgh,
estimated that 100,000 persons die annually in Scotland from diseases easily
preventable, and the same testimony could be obtained from the medical
profession in this and other countries.

Methods of Prevention.—With the advance of medical science the causes of many
diseases have been determined. Vaccination has been found to prevent or
mitigate the ravages of small pox. Scurvy, formerly so fatal among sailors that
it was deemed "a mysterious infliction of Divine justice against which man
strives in vain," is now entirely prevented by the use of vegetables or lime
juice. Cholera, whose approach strikes dread in the community and for which no
certain specific has been found, is but the penalty for filthy streets, bad
drainage, over-crowded tenements, and general filthiness, and it may be
controlled, if not prevented, by suitable sanitary measures. The same may be
said of that dreadful scourge, the yellow fever. There is no quarantine like
cleanliness, good drainage and ventilation.

Responsibility of Health Commissioners.—Health commissioners in our cities
should be men well skilled in the medical science, and the health of the
community should not be intrusted to ignorant political partisans. A great deal
of responsibility rests upon the municipal authorities in regard to the
prevention of disease.

The Divine Plan.—It is no doubt the intention of the all-wise Creator that we
should wear out by the general decay of all the organs, rather than by the
giving out of any particular part of the system; and that all the organs should
work together harmoniously until the vital forces are exhausted. There is no
reason why it should be otherwise; why all human organisms should not be
preserved like a tree or an animal of the forest, until its allotted period of
life is reached, and then decay and die. Unfortunately, as it is, the average
life of man is short, and after deducting infancy, sickness and old age,
scarcely more than one half is available for the active purposes of life. When
we observe the almost constant violation of the laws of health so common in
every community, the wonder is that people live at all.

Why Medicine is Taken.—The first step in the cure of any disease is to obey the
law of health which has been violated. If medicine is taken, it is not to
destroy the disease, since that is not a thing to be destroyed, but it is to
hold the deranged action in check while nature repairs the injury, and brings
the system again into harmonious movement. This tendency or power of nature is
the physician's chief reliance. Vis medicatrix naturm is the great sheetanchor,
the power of nature to repair the breach made by violated law. The very best
and most skillful physicians have little confidence in medicine itself

to cure diseases. The chief physician is nature, and the chief remedy is a
resort to hygienic measures. Nature can be ass isted by the intelligent
employment of proper medicines. The indiscriminate use of patent nostrums and
specific preventives and remedies, of whose constituents nothing is known, and
which propose to prevent or to cure almost all diseases, cannot be too greatly
depreciated. No well educated physician, unless perhaps in some very peculiar
case, will refuse to his patient a knowledge of the medicine he prescribes, as
well as the nature of its operation. With the need of medicine comes the need
of a competent physician to advise its use.

THE BLOOD-ITS RELATION TO LIFE AND HEALTH

Change and Waste.—A great change is constantly taking place in every part of
the human system. The old particles of the body are incessantly passing off in
the respiration, perspiration, and excretion. Careful and intelligent
observation leads to the belief that the entire body is changed once in seven
years. Many parts change much oftener—those which are constantly active many
times in a single year. The same body, in its form, appearance, and functions,
may remain, but every particle of flesh, bones, skin, etc., is removed and the
place occupied by a new particle. So that in all its material element the body
is renewed in seven years.

Supply from the Blood.—The chief supply in repairing this great waste is
furnished by the blood. The blood is "liquid flesh." It is a repository of the
ingredients of nutrition. Its materials are so varied and so refined that they
penetrate the minutest parts of the physical system, and become assimilated to
muscle, bone, skin, hair, cartilage, and nerve.

Quantity of the Blood.*—The entire quantity of blood in the vessels is about
one eighth part, by weight, of the whole body; so that in a man weighing 140
pounds the quantity of blood is nearly 18 pounds. The quantity of blood,
however, as well as its composition, varies somewhat at different times. Soon
after digestion it is considerably increased; for it has absorbed all the
nutritious materials taken with the food, and these materials must necessarily
pass through the blood in order to reach the tissues. After long abstinence it
is diminished in quantity to a corresponding degree. For the same reason, its
composition varies to a certain extent, since its different ingredients will
diminish or increase according as they have been discharged or absorbed in
greater or less abundance.

* This and most of the subsequent paragraphs on the physiology of the blood are
condensed from excellent works of Prof. Dalton on the subject .

Effects Produced by Loss of Blood.—Only a small proportion of the blood in the
body can be lost without causing a serious effect upon the system. Generally
speaking, the loss of one pound of blood causes faintness, and that of a pound
and a half or two pounds is followed by complete unconsciousness. If the
bleeding be then stopped, the patient usually recovers, but if a still larger
quantity of blood be lost, recovery becomes impossible.

"Transfusion of Blood."—In cases of great exhaustion, caused by excessive
bleeding, strength has sometimes been restored by injecting into the
blood-vessel healthy blood from some other person. This is called the
"Transfusion of Blood." Instance: If blood be drawn from an animal until it is
seemingly dead, and then that from another animal be injected into its veins,
its vitality will be restored.* This practice became quite common in the
seventeenth century. The operation was even tried on human beings, and the most
extravagant hopes were entertained. A maniac was restored to reason by the
blood of a calf. But many fatal accidents occurring, it soon fell into disuse.
It has, however, been successfully practiced in New York in a few cases within
the last three years, and is a method still in repute for saving life.

The Composition of Blood.—The blood is a thick opaque fluid of a deep red hue,
so peculiar that it may usually be distinguished by its color alone. It
contains many different ingredients, of which the most important are, first,
water; second, mineral substances; and third, albuminous matters.

The Water of the Blood.—This is what gives the blood its fluidity. For if the
water be driven off by evaporation the other ingredients remain behind in the
form of a dry mass, which would be entirely useless for the purpose of
nutrition. But in its natural condition the water of the blood unites all its
other ingredients into a uniform liquid, which easily moves through the
blood-vessels, and dissolves the new substances, which are absorbed from
without. Taken altogether, the water forms rather more than three fourths of
the whole mass of the blood.

The Mineral Ingredients These are present in much smaller proportion. The most
abundant is common salt, which we know is taken with the food, and is a
necessary ingredient of all the tissues. It forms, however, only about four
parts in a thousand of the whole blood. The combinations of , lime, which the
bones and teeth require for their nourishment, are found in still smaller
quantity dissolved in the animal fluids of the blood. Other mineral substances
of various kinds are also present in their requisite quantity.

* Brown-Sequard tells bf a curious Instance in which the blood of a living dog
was transferred Into one just dead. The animal rose on Its feet and wagged its
tail, but died a second time in twelve and one half hours afterward.—Steele's
Fourteen Weeks in Physiology.

Albumen in the Blood.—But the most remarkable of all the ingredients of the
blood are its albuminous matters. It is these substances which give to it its
thick and animal consistency, and which also act the most important part in the
nutrition of the body. They are of two different kinds, which are naturally
mingled together in the blood in a liquid form.

Albumen.—The first of these is the albumen. We can obtain a tolerably correct
idea of the character of albumen from the fresh white of egg, which has
received a similar name. This is not exactly the same thing with the albumen of
the blood, but still the two resemble each other very closely. They may both be
coagulated by boiling, when they become solid, white, and opaque. The principal
difference between them is, that the fresh white of egg is partly gelatinous in
consistency, while the albumen of the blood is perfectly fluid, and'may readily
be made to flow through the veins, or to run from one glass vessel into
another.

Quantity of Albumen.—The albumen is about forty parts in a thousand, or one
twenty-fifth of the whole blood. It represents, in great part, the concentrated
nourishment derived from the food, for it is probably into this substance that
most of the albuminose is converted, after being absorbed from the intestine in
the digestive process. It is the material out of which the tissues of the body
are afterward formed.

Fibrine.—The other animal matter in the blood is the fibrine. Although this is
in very small quantity, namely, only two parts in a thousand, it is an
exceedingly curious and important ingredient. For it possesses a property which
does not belong to any other animal substance, namely, the property of "
spontaneous coagulation"—that is, it will coagulate by itself without being
boiled, or brought into contact with an acid, or treated by any other chemical
substance. We shall see hereafter what an important character this property
gives to the blood.

Other Substances.—But these substances are only the liquid portions of the
blood. They are all dissolved in each other, and form a perfectly transparent
and almost colorless fluid. Besides them there are a multitude of little
rounded bodies contained in the liquid mixture, which make the blood opaque,
and give to it its red color. They are so abundant that they are crowded
together by thousands in each drop of blood, and so minute that they are only
visible by the aid of the microscope. They are called the blood-globttles.

Described Globules of the Blood.—If we examine a drop of blood under the
microscope, we see the blood-globules floating in profusion in the fluid parts.
Each one is a delicate circular plate or disk, somewhat like a piece of money
in form, only with the edges rounded, and rather thicker than the central part.
In human blood they are about pftrn of an inch in diameter, when measured
across their flat surfaces, and about 3-3^ °^ an 'nc'1 'D thickness.

Remarkable Characteristics of the Globules.—The blood-globules are exceedingly
soft and flexible in consistency. In fact, they are nearly fluid, like drops of
very thick oil or honey, only they do not dissolve in the other parts of the
blood, but retain their own form and substance. Consequently, when moving about
in the fluid, as they often do under the microscope, following accidental
currents in the blood, passing through narrow channels, and turning corners
among the other globules, they may be seen to twist about, and bend over, and
elongate in various ways, and then resume their natural figure as before. This
peculiar semi-fluid and flexible consistency is one of their greatest
peculiarities.

Color of Blood-Globules.—When seen by transmitted light and in thin layers,
they are of a very pale amber color, and nearly transparent. Nevertheless, they
contain all the red color of the blood, and when seen heaped together in layers
only five or six deep, they show distinctly the ruddy color which belongs to
them. Besides, if they are separated by filtration or any other means, or if
they are not formed in their natural quantity, the blood becomes paler exactly
in proportion as its globules are deficient.

Opacity of the Blood.—They also communicate to the blood its opacity. Although
each globule by itself is transparent, yet, when they are crowded together, and
mingled with the fluid parts of the blood, the whole becomes opaque, and
apparently impenetrable to light. This is because the globules of the blood and
its fluid parts are of a different nature and composition. The same thing will
happen when oil is emulsioned by a watery alkaline solution. The oil is
transparent by itself, and the alkaline liquid is transparent by itself; but if
you mix the two together the whole becomes white and opaque like milk. So the
globules of the blood and its fluid parts, mingled together, produce a thick
red and opaque liquid.

The red globules are the vivifying elements of the blood. They communicate to
it its animating and stimulating properties, by which all the organs are
maintained in a condition of vital activity.

White Globules.—Besides the red globules, the blood contains other little
bodies of a different form and aspect. These are the white globules. They are
very much less numerous than the red, as there are not more than three or four
of them for every thousand of the others. They are of a little larger size,
measuring about ^j'j of an inch in diameter, of a rounded form, and a finely
granulated texture. They are usually concealed for the most part, in the
greater abundance of the red globules.

When the ingredients of the blood are examined by analysis, they are found to
be mingled together in the following proportions—the proportion being that in
one thousand parts:—

Coagulation of the Blood.—Such are the properties and constitution of the blood
while circulating in the interior of the body. But if it be withdrawn from the
vessels a very remarkable change takes place, which alters its whole
appearance. This change is its coagulation.

Time for Coagulation.—When a patient is bled from the arm or is accidentally
wounded, the blood runs from the opened vein in a perfect liquid stream; but
soon afterward it begins to appear thicker than before, and will not run in
drops, nor moisten the fingers so easily when touched. When this alteration has
once commenced it goes on rapidly increasing, the blood growing thicker and
thicker, until it finally sets into a uniform, firm, elastic, jelly-like mass.
It is then said to be "coagulated" or "clotted." This change is usually
complete in about twenty minutes after the blood has been withdrawn from the
veins.

Cause of Coagulation.—This coagulation of the blood is entirely dependent upon
its fibrine. This substance alone has the property of coagulating
spontaneously. None of the other ingredients can solidify in this way, and if
the fibrine be taken out, the blood loses altogether its power of coagulation.
The fibrine, though in a very small quantity as compared with the other
substances in the blood, is diffused uniformly throughout the whole; and when
it coagulates, therefore, on being withdrawn from the vessels, it entangles all
the Other ingredients with it, and holds them imprisoned in its own substance.
The water of the blood, accordingly, the albumen, the globules, etc., are all
mechanically retained by the coagulating fibrine.

Serum of the Blood.—But not long afterward a partial separation takes place
between them. The fibrine solidifies still more; and, by contracting upon
itself, squeezes out the liquid portions of the blood from between its meshes.
Drops of a clear, amber-colored fluid begin to exude from its surface, and
these drops, growing larger and larger, run together into little pools, which
still increase in size until the entire surface is covered with the transparent
liquid. The remainder grows at the same time smaller and firmer, un

[merged small][merged small][ocr errors][merged small]

til at last the whole is permanently separated into two parts, a solid and a
liquid. The solid part is called the clot; the liquid part is the serum.

A "Clot" of Blood.—If we examine a cupful of blood, at the end of twelve hours
after it has been drawn from the veins, we will find that it is no longer a
uniform mass, but a solid clot floating in the transparent serum. The clot at
this time is still firm, red, and opaque, since it contains all the globules of
the blood as well as the fibrine. For these globules cannot escape from the
clot, owing to their form and size, and are therefore retained by the meshes of
the coagulated fibrine. The serum, on the other hand, is transparent, and
nearly colorless. It contains all the albumen, the water, and other substances
dissolved in them.

Importance of Coagulation..—The coagulation of the blood is a property of the
greatest importance; for it is the only thing which prevents our bleeding to
death after the slightest incision or injury to the blood-vessels. Whenever
these vessels are opened by an accidental cut in the skin or in the muscles,
the blood at first flows with great freedom, according to the size of the
wound. But if we press firmly upon the injured part with a bandage or with' the
fingers, and then, after a short time, remove the pressure, we find that the
bleeding has stopped altogether. This is because the thin layer of blood
between the edges of the wounded vessels has coagulated and blocked up the
opening. No matter how thin this layer may be, it still coagulates; for every
particle of the blood, however small, contains its due proportion of fibrine,
and, consequently, solidifies at the proper time. The clot thus formed adheres
to the edges of the wounded parts, and so acts as a continuous bandage or plug,
until the tissues have again grown together and become permanently united.

Coagulation Stops Bleeding.—It is in this way that the bleeding from all
ordinary wounds is usually arrested by nature. No matter how freely the blood
may flow at first, if you keep the parts steadily compressed for twenty minutes
or half an hour, the fibrine will then be coagulated and the bleeding will
stop. But when the wound is very deep, or when any of the principal arteries
have been severed, this means will not succeed; for the blood comes with so
much force from those larger vessels that it cannot be kept back by ordinary
pressure, and no time is allowed for its permanent coagulation. Then we must
call for the assistance of the surgeon, who is often compelled to search for
the blood vessels in the deeper parts of the wound, and to tie up their open
mouths with a fine cord or ligature. Why this operation is successful requires
a further explanation.

Coagulation in the Interior of the Body.—It is a curious fact that the blood
will coagulate, not only when it is discharged externally, but also even in the
interior of the body, whenever it is withdrawn from the ordinary course of the
circulation. Thus, if we receive a bruise, and the little vessels beneath the
skin are torn, the blood which flows from them coagulates in the neighborhood
of the injury. Any internal bleeding produces, after a time, a clot in the
corresponding situation where the blood is effused. After death, also,
coagulation takes place in the cavities of the heart, and in the great veins
near it; and whenever any part of the body is so injured as to stop its
circulation, the blood necessarily coagulates in its vessels.

The Ligature and Coagulation.—When the surgeon places the ligature upon a
wounded vessel, he stops the circulation through it. The blood is imprisoned in
the neighborhood of the ligature, and soon afterward coagulates and blocks up
the cavity of the vessel with its solidified fibrine. After a time the ligature
separates and is thrown off, and the wounded parts unite by the healing of the
tissues.

Coagulation Spontaneous.—The coagulation of the blood is a property,
therefore*, that belongs to the fibrine, and it is spontaneous. As soon as the
fibrine is formed it possesses this property, by which it is distinguished from
all other substances. It is not manifested immediately, for it requires a
certain time for its completion; but owing to the very nature of the fibrine,
wherever it may be, within a short period after it is shut off from the
circulation it exhibits this peculiar character, and coagulates inevitably.

Why Coagulation does not Stop the Circulation.—Why, then, does it not coagulate
in the vessels, and thus stop the circulation of the blood? To understand this,
we must remember that the history of all the animal substances in the living
body is one of incessant change. None of them remain the same, but all undergo
successive transformations. The albuminose formed in digestion is no sooner
taken up by the blood-vessels then it is converted into albumen. The oily
matters absorbed with the chyle, and the sugar produced in the liver, are also
rapidly decomposed, as we have seen, and disappear in the circulation. What is
destroyed in this way for the purposes of nutrition is constantly replaced by a
fresh quantity formed in the same organs.

This is also true of the fibrine. That which is circulating in the bloodvessels
to-day is not the same fibrine which was there yesterday, but a new supply,
freshly produced in the process of daily nutrition. It is estimated by
physiologists that all the fibrine which exists in the blood is destroyed and
reproduced at least three times over in the course of a single day. What the
new substances are which are formed by its decomposition is still unknown, for
we cannot yet follow out all the details of these changes which take place so
rapidly in the living body. But there is every reason to believe that the
renovation of the fibrine in the blood takes place as constantly and rapidly as
that of its other ingredients.

The blood, therefore, does not coagulate while the circulation is going on,
because its fibrine is being incessantly altered and converted into new
substances. It has been found that in certain of the internal organs,
especially in the liver and kidneys, the fibrine disappears, and that little or
none of it is contained in the blood returning from them. When we come to leam
with what rapidity the circulation is carried on, we shall easily understand
how coagulation may thus be prevented. But if the blood be withdrawn from the
circulation altogether, or confined in any part by a ligature, then its fibrine
can no longer go through with the natural changes of its decomposition, and it
accordingly coagulates, as we have above described.

Two Different Kinds of Blood in the Body.—Finally, there is a most remarkable
difference in the appearance of the blood in different parts of the body. In
one half of the circulation, that is, in all those vessels which are called
"arteries," it is of a brilliant scarlet hue; while in the "veins" it is of a
deep bluish-purple, almost black color. These two kinds of blood follow each
other in the circulation, changing alternately from one color to the other; so
that, although there is always red blood in the arteries, and always blue blood
in the veins, yet the same blood is alternately scarlet and purple, as it
passes from one set of vessels to another. The dark, impure blood of the veins
is purified in the lungs by the air.

FOOD AND HEALTH.

Food Makes Blood for the Body.—We have already noted the relation of the blood
to life and health. The relation of water to health has also been shown. Blood
is derived chiefly from the food we eat. The nutritious part of the food after
being taken into the stomach is converted by the process of digestion into
blood, and then into living, healthful tissues.

Amount of Food Daily Needed.—To replace the daily outgo we need about two
pounds of food and three pounds of drink. With the eight hundred pounds of
oxygen taken from the air a man uses in a year about a ton and a half of
material. Our bodies are but molds in which a certain quantity of matter
receives a definite form. They may be likened to an eddy in a river which
retains its shape for a while, yet every instant each particle of water is
changing. Our strength comes from the food we eat. The food contains within it
a latent force, which it gives up when it is decomposed. Putting food into our
bodies is like placing a spring within a watch; every motion of the body is
only a new direction given to this spring-force, as every movement of the hand
on a dial is but the manipulation of the power of the bent spring in the watch.
We use the pent-up energies of meat, bread, and vegetables which are placed at
our service, and transfer them to a higher

sphere of action.

Kinds of Food Needed.—In order, therefore, to produce heat and force, we
require something that is combustible, something with which oxygen can combine.
Three kinds of food are needed.

1. Nitrogen. That which contains a considerable proportion of nitrogen. This is
a prominent constituent of the tissues of the body, and is necessary to their
growth and repair. The most common forms are whites of eggs, which are nearly
pure albumen, caseine, the chief constituent of cheese, lean meat, and gluten,
the viscid substance that gives tenacity to dough. Bodies that have much
nitrogen readily oxidize.

2. Carbon. The next is carbonaceous food, or that which contains much carbon.
This consists of two kinds: first, the sugars. These contain hydrogen and
oxygen in proportion to form water, and about the same amount of carbon. They
may, therefore, be considered as water with carbon diffused through them. In
digestion, starch and gum are changed into sugar. All these are burned to
produce heat. The second are the fats, which are like sugars in composition,
but contain less oxygen, and not in the proportion to fonn water. They combine
with more oxygen in burning, and thus give off more heat.

3. Mineral Matters and Water Needed in Food. Food should contain mineral matter
in addition to water—such as iron, sulphur, magnesia, phosphorus, salt, and
potash. About three pints of water are needed daily to dissolve the food, and
carry it through the circulation, to float off waste matter, to lubricate the
tissues, and by evaporation cool the system. A man weighing one hundred and
fifty-four pounds contains one hundred pounds of water; enough if collected in
a body to drown him. Iron goes to the blood disks; lime combines with
phosphorus and carbonic acid to give solidity to the bones and teeth;
phosphorus is essential to the activity of the brain; salt is necessary to the
secretions of some of the digestive fluids, and also to aid in working off the
waste products.

Process of Digestion.—Nature has provided an entire laboratory for the process
of digestion. The food is chewed, mixed with the saliva of the mouth, and
swallowed. It is then acted upon by the gastric juice in the stomach, passed
into the intestines, where it receives the bile, pancreatic juice, and other
liquids which completely dissolve it, absorbing the nourishing parts in the
stomach and intestines; the remainder goes to the bloodvessels, and enters the
general circulation.

Nutritious and Healthy Articles of Food.—There are some articles of food of the
greatest nutritive value. We mention the following: Beef, mutton, fish, milk,
cheese, eggs, bread, potatoes, corn, oat-meal, rice, ripe fruits, tomatoes,
peas, beans, etc., all of which articles of food are more or less nutritive.

Beef and mutton possess the greatest nutritive value of any of the meats.

Lamb is less strengthening, but more delicate. Like the young of all
animals,.it should be thoroughly cooked, and at a high temperature, to properly
develop its flavor.

Pork has much carbon, and hence is very heating; the delicate and sedentary
have no need of such food. It sometimes contains a parasite called trichina,
which may De transferred to the human system, and produce disease and death. If
eaten it should be cooked thoroughly. ^

Fish is rich in phosphorus, and is commended as food for the brain. It loses
its mineral constituents and juices when salted.

Oysters are highly nutritious, and are more easily assimilated when eaten raw.

Milk is a model food, containing albumen, starch, fat, and mineral matter.
Cheese is very nourishing, one pound being equal in value to two of meat. Eggs 
are most easily digested when cooked "soft."

A Suggestive Conversation.—Many comparatively healthy persons eat pork; but
such persons usually toil at out-of-door work, and because of the great
strength of their physical constitutions they can endure even the use of pork.
The hog is the filthiest of animals; and experiments show that when the flesh
is made the only or chief article of food for a few days the physical system
begins rapidly to suffer. Scrofulous persons suffer the soonest and the most
largely, and there is good reason to believe that much of the scrofula
prevalent in this country is caused by pork-eating, either by the patient or by
his parents.

"But it is often difficult to get other meat than pork."

"My answer is, Eat pork if you must, in other words, from necessity; never from
choice."

"How should pork be cooked?"

"I will answer in the language of a veteran physician: 'Cook it done.'' Other
meats may be eaten rare if desired; pork must be cooked thoroughly. My advice
to you is, Unless you are an out-of-door laWer, eat pork rarely and sparingly,
and see to it that the cook puts it over a hot fire, and keeps it there until
it is 'twice done.'"

Onions.—Few people dream of the many virtues of onions. Lung and liver
complaints are certainly benefited, often cured, by a free consumption of
onions, either cooked or raw. Colds yield to them like magic. Don't be afraid
of them. Taken at night all offense will be wanting by morning, and the good
effects will amply compensate for the trifling annoyance. Taken regularly, they
greatly promote the health of the lungs and the digestive

organs. An extract made by boiling down the juice of onions to a syrup, and
taken as a medicine, answers the purpose very well, but fried, roasted, or
boiled onions are better. Onions are a very cheap medicine, within every body's
reach, and they are not by any means as "bad to take " as the costly nostrums a
neglect of their use may necessitate.

Tomatoes.—The tomato is one of the most healthful as well as the most relished
of all vegetables. Its qualities do not depend on the mode of preparation for
the table; it may be eaten thrice a day, cold or hot, cooked or raw, alone or
with salt or pepper or vinegar, or altogether, to a like advantage, and to the
utmost that can be taken with an appetite. Its excellence arises from its
slight acidity, and the seeds which it contains. The acidity refreshes and
tones up the system in the same manner as fruit, while the seeds act as
mechanical, gentle irritants to the inner coating of the bowels, causing them
to throw out a large amount of fluid matter, and thus keeping them free. The
tomato is also very nutritious.*

Healthful Bread.—The nutritive value of all food depends much upon the amount
of gluten which it contains, as this is the substance which goes to form
muscle. The proportions of gluten in whole grain, bran, and fine flour are as
follows: Whole grain, twelve per cent.; fine flour, ten per cent. By sifting
out the bran we therefore render the flour less nutritious as well as less
wholesome. As bran constitutes from one eighth to one fourth of the whole
weight of wheat, on the average one sixth, there is a great waste of
muscle-forming material by bolting.

Graham Bread when made well is especially healthy for dyspeptics.

Unground Wheat.—A very healthful and relishable dish for breakfast, dinner, or
supper, can be made from unground wheat, boiled. The freshest and cleanest
wheat, with the plumpest kernels, should be selected. The white and the
amber-colored wheats cook the most readily, and they are also preferable on
account of having a thinner skin. Time is saved in picking it over, to have it
first run through a smut machine and then washed, though the looking over is
indispensable. Put it to boil with five or six parts water to one of wheat, by
measure. Cover close, and after it begins to boil set it where it will barely
simmer. Cook it four or five hours, or until the kernels mash readily between
the thumb and finger. Hard wheat of any kind will require still more time, and
some kinds may be cooked all day without softening. When done it should be even
full of water or juice, which thickens

* The tomato season ends with the frost. Tf the vines are pulled up before
frost comes, and are hung up in a well-ventilated cellar with the tomatoes
hanging to them, the "loveapple " will continue ripening until Christmas. The
cellar should not be too dry nor too warm. The knowledge of this may be
improved to great practical advantage for the benefit of many who are Invalids,
and who are fond of the tomato.

and becomes gelatinous on cooking. Salt, and send to the table warm, to eat
with meats and vegetables at dinner. It can also be eaten by itself, trimmed
with sugar or butter, or both, or syrup, or milk. It molds nicely, and may be
served cold at breakfast or supper, or it may be steamed up and served hot at
breakfast. The long cooking it requires of course precludes its being served
fresh at that meal. After it has once cooled, however, it cannot be made so
soft and liquid as at first by any subsequent cooking. Like other starch, when
it once sets, it loses its liquidity.

A Very Nutritious Bread.—Valuable economy in the manufacture of nutritious
bread is secured by the following process: Gluten to the amount of ten or
twelve per cent, is extracted by boiling water from bran, and the flour is
kneaded with this infusion, whereby from twenty to thirty per cent, more bread
is obtained. The bread, of course, is not so white as that of first quality,
but is much more nutritious.

Fresh or Stale Bread, Which ?—Fresh bread and warm biscuits are less digestible
and less nutritious than old bread. In Germany bakers are prohibited from
selling bread until twenty-four hours after it is baked. Nothing is more common
in Germany than to hear the buyers at bake-shops ask for "Alt gebackenes Brod."
Is German robustness to be attributed to this fact?

Oat Meal. *—Oat meal is a food of great strength and nutrition. It is
especially serviceable as a brain-food. It contains phosphorous enough to keep
a man doing an ordinary amount of brain-work in good health and vigor. All
medical authorities unite in the opinion that, eaten with milk, it is a perfect
food; and, having all the requisites for the proper development of the system,
it is a pre-eminently useful food for growing children and the young generally.
Oat meal requires much cooking to effectually burst its starch-cells, but when
it is well cooked it will thicken liquid much more than equal its weight in
wheaten flour. The oats of this country are superior to those grown on the
Continent and the southern parts of England, but certainly inferior to the
Scotch, where considerable pains is taken to cultivate

•Tin two principal ways of cooking oatmeal are as porridge and cake, for which
the following are good recipes: To three pints of boiling water add a level
teusponnful of salt and a pint of coarse meal, stirring while it is being
slowly poured in; continue stirring until the meal is diffused through the
water—about eight or ten minutes. Cover it closely then, and place It where it
will simmer for an hour; avoid stirring during the whole <>f that time. Serve
hot, with as Utile messing as possible, accompanied with milk, maple syrup, or
sugar and cream. To make oatmeul-cake, place in a bowl a quart of meal, add to
It as much coM water as will form it into a soft, light dough, cover it with a
cloth 15 minutes to allow it to swell, then dust the paste-board with meal,
turn out the dough and give it a vigorous kneading. Cover it with the cloth a
few minutes, and proceed ut once to roll it out to the eighth of an inch in
thickness ; cut in five pieces, and partly cook them on a griddle, then finish
them by toasting them in front of the lire.

them; and it is needless to point out that the Scotch are an example of a
strong and robust nation, which result is justly set down as being derived from
the plentiful use of oat meal. Dr. Guthrie has asserted that his countrymen
have the largest heads of any nation in the world—not even the English have
such large heads—which he attributes to the universal use or oat meal.

Professor Forbes, of Edinburgh, during some twenty years, measured the breadth
and height, and also tested the strength of both the arms and loins, of thj
students in the University—a very numerous class, and of various nationalities,
drawn to Edinburgh by the fame of his teaching. He found that in height,
breadth of chest and shoulders, and strength of arms and loins, the Belgians
were at the bottom of the list; a little above them, the French; very much
higher, the English; and highest of all, the Scotch and Scotch Irish, from
Ulster, who, like the natives of Scotland, are fed in their early years with at
least one meal a day of good oat meal porridge.

Poisonous Properties of Moldy Bread.—A recent case of fatal poisoning has been
directly traced to the use of moldy bread for pudding. The pudding was eaten by
the cook, the proprietor of the eating-house in which it was prepared, several
children of the proprietor, and a number of strangeri AW were made alarmingly
sick, and two, a child and an adult, died. The doctors attending the case
ascribed the effects to poisonous fungi in the mold.

Healthfulness of Fruits.—The liberal use of various fruits as food is conducive
to good health. Fruit is not a solid and lasting element like beef and bread,
and does not give strength to any great extent. But fruits contain those acids
which refresh and give tone to the system during the season when it is most
needed. They should never be eaten unless thoroughly ripe or cooked. Stale
fruits or those which have been plucked some time are unhealthy in the extreme.
The proper time to eat fruit is in the morning and early afternoon. At night it
is " leaden," according to the Spanish, who call fruit "golden in the morning
and silver at noon."

Fruit Saves Doctors' Bills.—An experienced physician in the West writes as
follows: "My bills are cut down in families in proportion as they eat fresh
fruit. Strawberries, currants and tomatoes are better medicine than calomel or
jalap, and 'rather better to take.' Apples freely eaten do the work of
vermifuge or lozenges. Every fruit or berry has its mission to man hidden away
within it. Therefore, set out a strawberry bed, if you haven't one. If there is
no other place, border your garden walks, and with a sharp hoe and straight
line keep the edges cut clearly, leaving a rich mat of vines two feet wide.
Plant currants. A fresh cutting will grow if you but stick it in the ground.
Border the fence with raspberries. Walk around your place during the early
spring days, and make a mental inventory of every spot where you can stick in a
fruit tree or a berry bush. Plant •omething."

Danger of Eating Fruit to Excess.—In the use of fruit excess should be avoided.
While advantageous when consumed in moderate quantity, fruits prove injurious
if eaten in excess. Of a highly succulent nature, and containing free acids and
principles prone to undergo fermentation and change, they are, when eaten out
of due proportion to other food, apt to act ns a disturbing element, and excite
derangement of the stomach and bowels. This is particularly likely to occur if
eaten either in the unripe or overripe state: in the former case, from their
acidity and unfitness for digestion; in the latter, from their strong tendency
to ferment and decompose within the alimentary canal. The prevalence of stomach
and bowel disorders, noticeable during the height of the fruit season, affords
proof of the incon. veniences to which the too free use of fruit, especially if
unripe, may give rise.

Special Danger in Summer Vacation.—There is special danger to persons who leave
the large towns for a vacation in the country during the early fruit season.
The children often indulge in eating unripe fruit, and in this way suffer so
much harm as to lessen if not to neutralize the benefits of a summer vacation.
Will mothers read this, and enter upon a line of greater watch and care?

Are Nuts Healthful 7—Most kinds of nuts are only suited to persons of strong
powers of digestion, while some are positively baneful to all. A good rule is
to eat them sparingly, and only those found by personal experience to be
suitable.

Salt with Nuts.—Here is a suggestive record by a physician: "While enjoying a
visit from an Englishman, hickory nuts were served in the evening, when my
English friend called for salt, stating that he*knew of a case of a woman
eating heartily of nuts in the evening who was taken violently ill. The
celebrated Dr. Abernethy was sent for, but it was after he had become too fond
of his cups, and he was not in a condition to go. He murmured 'Salt! salt!' of
which no notice was taken. He went to the place next morning, and found the
patient a corpse. He said had they given her salt, it would have relieved her;
and that if he was allowed to make an examination he would convince them. When
the stomach was opened, the nuts were found in a mass. He sprinkled salt on it,
and it immediately dissolved. I have known of a sudden death myself, which
appears to have been the effect of the same."

HINTS ABOUT HEALTHFUL EATING.

A Good Appetite Healthful.—Many persons regard a hearty desire for food as
something unrefined, indelicate, and to be constantly discouraged. This is a
great mistake. The people who strive to check a wholesome and natural appetite
regard dinner merely as a "feed," not an agreeable social custom, and as the
domestic event of the day. A good appetite is a good thing, and is just as
necessary to the health of the man who works only with his brain as it is to
the day-laborer who earns his bread by the sweat of his brow, "breaking stones
or plowing." The stomach and the brain are brethren, the former being the
elder, and having prior right to care. Let that be well provided for, and it
will sustain its brother.

Appetite not an Infallible Guide.—The opinion prevailing among many that if
people like a thing they may eat it without harm is a great mistake. If
sweetened drinks, candies or things containing poison be given to children,
they n ill eat them readily without detecting the danger. Brute animals are
guided in the selection of food by their instinct, and their wonderfully
developed organs of smell. Human individuals do not show such instinct, but
are, or should be, governed by their superior intelligence.

Evil of Rapid Eating.—Eat slowly, thoroughly masticating your food. Rapid
eating is one of our national evils, and is the chief cause of dyspepsia. The
saliva does not flow too rapidly to mix with the food to promote digestion, and
the coarse pieces swallowed resist the action of the digestive fluid. The food
washed down with drinks which dilute the gastric juice and hinder its work will
not supply the place of the saliva. Failing to get the taste of the food by
rapid mastication, we think it insipid, and hence use condiments which
over-stimulate the digestive organs. In these ways the system is overworked,
and, the tone of the stomach being affected, a foundation is laid for
dyspepsia.*

How to Regulate the Quantity of Food.—If the food be swallowed no faster than
the gastric fluid is prepared to be mixed with it, hunger or the desire for
food will cease when just enough has been taken; but if the food is crowded
down rapidly, after the manner of thousands of American eaters, the appetite
will continue until more than enough is eaten, and often until two or three
times too much is eaten. Remember that the appetite will only cease with the
secretion and flow of the gastric fluid; hence we should eat slowly,' or we
shall eat too much. The slow eater should stop with the cessa

* " In thift country rapid eating is a prevailing evil. Every year its slain
are counted by' thousands. Not long since a friend wrote me inquiring why it is
that there are so many more dyspeptics in America than in other populous
countries? 'Because,' I responded, *there are more rapid eaters.'"—Henby Lusok,
M. D.

tion of his appetite; the rapid eater before. Rapid eating frequently begets
irritability, dyspepsia, or disease of the stomach.

.Gating too Much Eating too fast generally involves eating too much—

more than is needed fot the support and nutrition of the body—and the reason
for this is, that the organs of taste, which are our guide in this matter, are
not allowed sufficient voice; they are not allowed time to take cognizance of
the presence of food ere it is pushed past them into the recesses of the
stomach. They do not, therefore, have opportunity to represent the real need of
the system, and hence allow the crowding of the stomach. "I hold," wrote Dr.
Jackson, "that thirty minutes should be spent at each meal, and spent, too, in
chewing the food a good portion of the time, and not in continued putting in
and swallowing, but in pleasant chat and laugh, instead of the continuance of
the intense nervous pressure of the office or library. If you arrange to spend
thirty minutes in this way at your meals, you may rest assured you will not eat
too much, and what you do eat will be in the best condition for appropriation
to the needs of your system."

Food should be Thoroughly Chewed.—There is one simple rule, the observance of
which will go a great way toward securing the full benefit of what we eat, and
so will be conducive to good health; it is, that all food should be thoroughly
chewed before being swallowed. The effects, both mechanical and chemical, of
thorough mastication, are the preliminary conditions for healthy digestion and
nutrition. Aside from the grinding, the service which the saliva is capable of
performing, if we give it time, is similar to, if not identical with, that of
the juice of the stomach. And in a general way, it may be said that the more
nearly the food is reduced to a fine pulp in the mouth, the less remains for
the rest of the digestive apparatus to do, the more completely their task is
performed, and the more perfect is the preparation of the food for its
purpose—the formation of blood and the nutrition of the whole body.

Hint about " Small Mouthfuls."—Our children will receive a great service from
us, if we require them early to form the habit of eating in small mouthfuls and
chewing their food well. The same rule holds good for every age, and should be
especially regarded in advancing years, when the teeth become imperfect and
mastication less effective. Adherence to this simple rule will not only be of
great benefit to health, and largely contribute to prevent indigestion and
dyspepsia, but will increase the pleasures of the table, and retain the natural
strength of the digestive organs, which exert so wide an influence upon both
bodily and mental comfort.

How Much Shall We Hat ?—Great eaters never live long; spare eaters never
accomplish much. The best rule is, Eat moderately. Never eat so much as to feel
uncomfortable. If more food is taken than sufficient for the wants of the
system, it remains undigested, and becomes a source of irritation and
oppression. The quantity of the food required varies with the age and habits of
a person. The diet of a child should be largely vegetable and abundant. A
sedentary occupation requires less food than an active, out-door life. The
greatest workers should be the greatest eaters, as a poverful engine needs a
corresponding furnace. Cheerfulness is essential to digestion. A good laugh is
the best of sauce. Care and grief are the bitterest foes of digestion. A bright
face and a light heart are friends to a long life, and nowhere do they serve
better than at the table. God designed that we should enjoy eating, and that,
having stopped before satiety was reached, we should have the satisfaction
always attendant on a good work well done. To eat until one can eat no longer
is gluttony, and should never be indulged. One has said that as many lives have
been destroyed by gluttony as by drunkenness.

Loss of Appetite, and How to Recover it.—The appetite is often lost through
excessive use of stimulants, food taken too hot, sedentary occupation, liver
disorder, and want of change of air. To ascertain and remove the cause is the
first duty. Exercise, change of air, and diet will generally prove sufficient
to recover the appetite. Children, if they have plenty of outdoor exercise, are
regular in their habits, and eat only plain, nourishing food, will seldom, if
ever, complain of a lack of appetite. See, also, chapter on exercise.

Rest Before and After Eating.—A season of rest after dinner pays well, but it
is not more important than the rest before eating, if one is very weary. This
rule is of the utmost importance to business men, or persons engaged in brain
labor, and its violation is one of the chief causes of dyspepsia. The length of
time required to complete digestion varies according to various circumstances,
such as the healthy condition of the stomach, the kind and quantity of food
taken, exercise, etc. Ordinarily from two to five hours, or longer, are needed.

Eating Between Meals.—This is another of the causes of dyspepsia, for which the
foundations are laid in childhood. When the ordinary meals of the day are
sufficiently near each other, nothing should be taken into the stomach between
meals. Even fruit, which so many consider healthy at all times, robs the
stomach of its needed rest.*

Best Times for Meals.—Breakfast should be eaten as soon as possible after
rising. If not convenient to eat at once, a single cup of warm wheat or

* Convkkbatioh wjts A Doctor.—"Well, doctor, is itinjitrtous to eatbetwetn
mtaUf" **That depends on the length of the interval."

** I niean the ordinary or usual meals of the day, as observed In communities
generally."

u It is; the stomach, after being taxed with the work of digestion after the
ordinary meals, needs-rest, and must have it, or it will suffer sooner or
later."

"Then you think the eating of fruit* between meals is not well?"

"I do. The only proper rule is to give the stomach its necessary rest; rob it
of that, and soon the penalty must come."

corn, coffee or chocolate, with plenty of milk, will remove the feeling of
languor and faintness for an hour or more.

Dinner should be eaten late in the afternoon cr early in the eve ling. It is
the principal meal of the day, and, to be enjoyed as well as digested, admits
of neither hurry nor interference. The work of the day should be over; and a
long rest should follow before bed-time. Eat no late suppers.

Luncheon in the middle of the day is the meal most abused. It is rarely that
sufficient time is taken for it. This meal should consist of substantial food,
but light in quantity. The pressure of work at midday is so great that the
digestive organs should not be heavily taxed at that time. Take all meals at
regular hours.*

Comparative Value of Different Modes of Cooking.—All meats, pork excepted, are
the most healthful when cooked so as to retain their juices. This is best done
by roasting. Broiling ranks next, then comes boiling, and last we have frying.
Cook meat, as far as possible, in its own juices. Vegetables follow the same
rule.f

Variety of Vegetables at the Same Meal.—" Shall we eat several kinds of
vegetables at the same meal?" is a question often asked. A well known physician
answered it thus: "I would not burden you with severe restrictions here; but if
my good wife should ask me for 'mine good opinion,' I would gently hint to her
to cook not more than two." "Should she ask for the reason, what then?" "I
would answer, that most vegetables digest more easily alone. Indeed, this is
true of most kinds of food. I think, tak

* " Blessed art thou, 0 land, when thy king is the son of nobles, and thy
princes eat in due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness
I"—Ecclesiastes x, I7.

"The natural division of the day for necessary repasts, Is Breakfast, eight, or
half a/Ur; Dinner, one. or fuil/after; 8upper, eight, or half after. And these,
or even earlier hours, were formerly observed in these countries. Then we had
scarcely any such thing as gnvt, and no nervous disorders.

"In ancient nations the custom was to eat but once; and then about
midday.**—Dr. Adam Clarke, in loc.

t A Conversation: "Doctor, how shall we cook vegetables?"

"I will give you the same general rule as before: The best mode is to cook them
so as to retain their own juices. Baking, therefore, is my preference. Beets
baked are far preferable to boiled beets. In boiling, much of the most valuable
ingredients which are In the Juice, is lost."

"Tou surprise me; I have never eaten baked beets."

"Then try them. Have your cook thoroughly bake them. In eating, slice them, and
spread with butter. In some sections of Europe the baked beet is sold to the
peasantry as a good substitute for the bread-loaf, and Is eaten in the same
way. I need not say that It la relished." 4

"Now, as to other vegetables?"

"I need not tell yon that baked potatoes are the best; fried are tbe worst .
Let the rule be to cook them with as little grease as possible. Milk is much
more healthful with vegetables than grease."

ing society as it is, the best advice I can give you is to eat a variety of
food, but not many kinds at the same time."

"How Long to Starve."—A man will die for want of air in five minutes, for want
of sleep in ten days, for want of water in a week, for want of food at varying
intervals, dependent on constitution, habits of life, and the circumstances of
the occasion. The captain of a Boston whaler was wrecked. For eight days he
could not get a drop of water, nor a particle of food. On the day of the wreck
he weighed a hundred and ninety pounds; when res'cued he weighed one hundred
pounds. A teaspoonful of brandy was given to each sailor; but before they could
be taken aboard the vessel which saved them they became unconscious, and
remained so for two days, but all eventually recovered. Many persons have been
killed by eating too much after having fasted for a long time; the safe plan of
procedure, and which every reader should bear in mind, is to feel the way
along, as persons who are traveling in the dark and fear a precipice ahead;
there can be no one rule given, because there are so many modifying
circumstances. Give a tea-spoonful of hot drink at a time, and if no ill
result, repeat in five minutes, and the same amount of soft food, boiled rice,
or softened bread, or gruel; for the stomach is itself as weak as the sufferer
in proportion, and can only manage a very small amount of food.

FOOD FOR THE SICK.

Toast and Water.—Toast about three inches of the cruet of bread till it is of a
light brown on both sides; then plunge it into cold water, and let it stand for
half an hour in a covered vessel. When the crumb is used it soon sours in a
warm room, and when made with boiling water it is insipid and unrefreshing.

Barley Water.—Get some pearl-barley, wash it in four waters—that is, water
poured on it four times and thrown away, so that it may be clean; rub two or
three pieces of sugar on a lemon cut open, and put them in a jug with the
washed barley and a few slices of lemon; then pour boiling water on the whole,
and cover it over until it is cold.

Barley Gruel.—Boil two ounces of pearl barley in half a pint of water to
extract the coloring matter, throw this away and put the barley into three
pints and a half of boiling water, and let it boil till it is one half the
quanjty; then strain it for use.

Oatmeal Gruel.—Take two table-spoonfuls of oatmeal, half a blade of mace, a
piece of lemon peel, three quarters of a pint of water or milk, i little sugar.
Mix two spoonfuls of oatmeal very smooth in a little water, and put it
gradually to three quarter* of a pint; add a little lemon peel, and half a
blade of mace; set it over the fire for a quarter of an hour, stirring it
constantly. Then strain it, and add sugar to taste.

Parched Corn Gruel.—There are frequently sick people whose stomachs reject all
kinds of nourishment until conditions follow that in many cases of this kind
terminate fatally. In many cases where the popular sick-bed nourishments are
prescribed and rejected, a simple saucer of parched corn pudding or bowl of
gruel will seldom be refused. The corn is roasted brown, precisely as coffee is
roasted, ground as fine as meal in a coffee mill, and made either into mush,
gruel, or thin cakes, baked lightly brown, and given either warm or cold,
clear, or with whatever dressing the stomach will receive or retain.

Ground Rice Milk.—This is an agreeable way in which to administer rice to the
sick: Boil together two tablespoonfuls of ground rice with a pint of milk.
Sweeten it according to taste, adding the juice of a lemon. Let the whole boil
half an hour over a moderate fire. Eat it warm.

Bread Jelly.—Take one roll, one lemon, one quart of water, and sugar to taste.
Or take the crumb of a penny roll; cut it into thin slices, and toast them of a
pale brown on both sides. Put them into a quart of spring water. Let it simmer
over the fire till it has become a jelly. Strain it through a thin cloth, and
flavor it immediately with a little juice and sugar.

Iceland Moss Jelly.—Wash and bruise Iceland or Irish moss, and soak it all
night; dry and boil it, putting an ounce to a quart, till it is reduced to one
half the quantity of water; strain it through a sieve. Take it with milk, or
flavored to taste. It may be boiled in milk and turned into a shape when cold.

Apple Tapioca.—Pare, core, and quarter eight apples; take half a spoonful of
tapioca; put it to soak and swell all night in the water; put in half a
teacupful of white sugar and a little lemon peel; put this into a stew-pan, and
let the tapioca simmer ten minutes, then put in the apples and stew ten minutes
more. When the tapioca is clear, it will form a jelly around the apples.

Tapioca Jelly.—Take four tablespoonfuls of tapioca; rinse it thoroughly, then
soak it five hours in cold water, enough to cover it. Set a pint of cold water
on the fire; when it boils, mash and stir up the tapioca that is in water, and
mix it with the boiling water. Let the whole simmer gently, with a stick of
cinnamon or mace. When thick and clear, mix a couple of tablespoonfuls of white
sugar with half a tablespoonful of lemon-juice; stir it i:ito the jelly; if not
sweet enough, add more sugar, and turn into cups.

Meat Jelly.—Take half a pound of mutton, half a pound of beef, and

half a pound of veal or pork, with a small piece or bone of bacon; put in water
enough to keep it from burning, and cover it close; let it simmer for three or
four hours till the juice of the meat is entirely out, then strain it off, and
let stand till cold. If there is any fat, it can then be removed. A person
recovering from an illness must not be left all night without food. Some of
this jelly placed beside him, where he can reach it easily is a very excellent
thing.

To Make Arrow-root.—Put one teaspoonful of arrow-root into a basin; rub it very
smooth with two spoonfuls of cold water; pour over this half a pint of boiling
water or milk in such a proportion as may be allowed, stirring well the whole
time. It is generally better to boil it for two or three minutes. Sweeten to
taste.

Apple Water.—Slice two large apples, put them into a jar, and pour over them
one pint of boiling water. Cover close for an hour; pour off the fluid, and
sweeten if necessary.

Apple Tea.—Roast eight fine apples in the oven, or before the fire; put them in
a jug with two spoonfuls of sugar, and pour over them a quart of boiling water.
Let it stand one hour near the fire.

Currant Drink.—To a pint of fresh-gathered currants (stripped) put a pint of
water; let them boil together ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, then strain
and sweeten to taste; a few raspberries added give a pleasant flavor. The same
may be produced in winter by simmering two tablespoonfuls of currant jelly in
half a pint of water.

Beverage of Figs and Apples.—Have two quarts of water boiling; split six figs,
and cut two apples into six or eight slices each; boil the whole together
twenty minutes; pour the liquid into a basin to cool, and pass through a sieve
when it is ready for use. The figs and apples may be drained for eating with a
little boiled rice.

Ice Cream and Beef Juice.—Here is the prescription for a relishable dietary
article highly commended by an Illinois physician:—

Cream, 120 grams

Any confectioner can make it, or it may readily be prepared at home with a
freezer. Its uses are obvious.

Broth from Fowls.—Take an old fowl; stew it to pieces with a couple of onions.
Season lightly with pepper and salt; skim and strain it.

Chicken Broth.—Cut up a young fowl into several pieces, put in a stewpan with
three pints of spring-water set on the stove fire to boil; skim well,

[merged small][ocr errors]

and add a little salt; take two tablespoonfuls of pearl barley, wash it in
several waters, and add it to the broth, together with one ounce of
marsh-mallow roots cut into shreds, for the purpose of better extracting its
healing properties. The broth should then boil one hour, and be passed through
a napkin into a basin, to be kept ready for use.

To Cook Birds for Convalescents.—Lay them upon the gridiron; broil until they
have a light brown color, then put them in a stew-pan; pour over hot water
enough to cover them. Let them stew until tender. Season with a little fresh
butter, pepper and salt. Chickens, birds, and squirrels, stewed in a double
kettle, are very delicate for invalids. If permitted, stuff the fowls and birds
with minced oysters.

Mutton Broth.—Take one pound of scrag of mutton, put it into a saucepan with
two pints of water and a little salt; let it simmer gently for two hours;
strain it through a sieve, and when cold carefully remove every particle of
fat. It may be thickened with a little arrow-root or ground rice, as required.

A Strong Broth.—One pound of veal; one pound of beef; one pound of the scrag
end of a neck of mutton; a little salt; three quarts of water. Put the above
quantities into three quarts of water, with a little salt, and a few whole
peppers. Boil it until reduced to one quart.

Calves' Feet.—Take two calves' feet; two pints of water; one pint of new milk;
a little lemon peel or mace. Put the ingredients into a jar, cover it down, and
keep it in the oven for four hours. When cold, remove the fat. Flavor it with
lemon peel or mace, as preferred. This is very strengthening if taken the first
thing in the morning and the last at night.

Nourishing Soup.—Two pounds of lean veal or beef; a quarter of a pound of pearl
barley; a little fresh celery; a little salt. Boil two pounds of lean veal or
beef, with a quarter of a pound of pearl barley in a quart of water very
slowly, until it becomes the consistency of good cream; flavor it with a little
fresh celery. Strain it when done through a fine hair sieve, and serve. This
soup will only keep until the next day, therefore not more than the quantity
required must be made.

Honey should not be eaten by the sick and feeble, as it continues for a long
time in the stomach, and frequently causes "sourness" and flatulence.

Isinglass may be put into the invalid's tea, morning and evening, a good
pinchful for a teacup. It may also be introduced, as much as possible, into the
food of the weak, as it is most strengthening.

Brewis.—This is very good food for children. It is nothing more thav a thick
top crust of bread put into the pot where salt beef is boiling, and is nearly
done; it draws the fat, becomes relishing with the flavor of meat and salt, and
is nourishing to the stomach.

Suet and Milk.—One tablespoonful of shredded beef-suet; half a pint of fresh
milk. Mix these ingredients, and warm them sufficiently to melt the suet
completely. Skim it. Warm the cup into which you pour it, and give it to the
invalid to drink before it gets cold.

Mucilage of Gum-arabic. — One ounce of gum-arabic in powder; mix well with two
tab] espoonf uls of honey; shave a little rind of lemon; clean off the white
pith, and cut the lemon in slices into a jug; then stir on it, by degrees, a
pint and a half of boiling water. This is .particularly good in any complaint
that affects the chest, as cough, consumption, measles, etc.

Strong Tonic Drink. —A quarter of an ounce of camomile flowers; a quarter of an
ounce of sliced gentian root; a quarter of an ounce of bruised calumba; a
quarter of an ounce of dried orange peel; fifty cloves, bruised; a pint and a
quarter of cold spring water. Put these ingredients into a jug, and pour over
them rather more than a pint of cold water; let it stand twenty-four hours,
then pour off the clear liquor. Take three tablespoonfuls for a dose, fasting
every morning.

Bran Tea.—This is sometimes invaluable for softening the throat, ana most
nourishing for the sick and aged. Take two or three tablespoonfuls of
middle-sized bran, (not coarsest, as that is greasy,) put it into a jug, and
pour on it one quart of boiling water; let it stand for about a quarter of an
hour, and then pour off the water from the bran. The tea may be sweetened with
white sugar or fine honey. When wine has been ordered for the patient, it may
be added, or a little lemon juice. It is, however, not unpleasant without
either of these additions. A wine-glass full of this tea may be taken many
times in the day. Several persons in France have been kept alive with no other
nourishment for weeks.

Savory Custard.—A savory custard, much relished by sick people, is made in the
following manner: Take the yolks of two eggs, and the white of one, and put in
a small basin; add one gill of beef-tea, and a quarter of a salt-spoonful of
salt; whip up the eggs and the beef-tea; take a small cup, which will hold the
mixture, and butter it; take a piece of white letter paper, and butter that,
and tie it on the cup; have a sauce-pan with hot water, and put it on the fire
to boil; when the water is boiling put in the cup so that the water stands
below the top of the cup; let it simmer for a quarter of an hour; serve hot.

Raw Beef.—Physicians often administer to consumptives and persons of frail
constitutions a diet of finely chopped raw beef, properly seasoned with salt,
and heated by placing the dish containing it in boiling water. This food is
given, also, in cases where the stomach rejects almost every other form of
food. It assimilates rapidly and affords nourishment, while patients learn to
long for and like it.

Some of the severest forms of that distressing ailment called dysentery are
sometimes entirely cured by the patient eating a heaped tablespoonful of raw'
beef at a time, cut up very fine, and repeated at intervals of four hours until
cured, eating and drinking nothing else in the meanwhile.

Recipe for Beef Tea.—Mince finely one pound of lean beef, placed in a I reserve
jar or other suitable vessel, and pour upon it one pint of cold water. S'.ir,
and allow them to stand for about an hour, so that the goodness of the meat may
be dissolved out. Next place the jar or vessel in a sauce-pan of water over a
fire, and let the water boil gently for an hour. Remove the jar and strain. The
beef tea which runs through contains a quantity of fine sediment, which is to
be drunk with the liquid, after being flavored with salt to suit. The jar may
also be placed in an oven for an hour, instead of in the water, as above. Beef
tea, thus prepared, represents a highly nutritive an'I restorative liquid, with
an agreeable, rich, meaty flavor. The old method of boiling the beef over a
fire in a saucepan makes a soup or broth, not a tea.*

•beep Tea.—Some of the medical profession differ regarding the action of beef
tea. Some declare it very inferior as a food; othws believe it a most useful
substance to sustain the body under great exhaustion. It is an established
fact, that the greater portion of the albuminous tissue In the body is
furnished by animal or nitrogenous food, and there seems no reason to doubt
that the same elements can be supplied to the body in the more concentrated
form of beef tea, or meat-juice, such tea thus making one of the most valuable
tissue builders we possess. It has certainly had a great reputation from the
earliest times, and there are many instances in which it has saved lives.

Among many cases we may cite a striking example of the useful and nutritive
efficacy <>I beef tea in a case of inanition in an infant now six months old.
The mother of the patient had three children, the first of which was
still-born, the second died nine days after birth from inanition, and the third
began to decline when she was three weeks old. Knowing the tendency to death in
her second child, and suspecting it was due, probably, to the inefficiency of
the mother's milk, a thoroughly supporting treatment was adopted, and fifteen
drf ps of "Valentine's preparation of meat-juice," three times a day, together
with diluted cow s milk and lime-water were given. The mother's supply of milk
was also kept up. The cow's milk had a tendency to curdle, in spite of tho
lime-water, and so was discontinued. The child began to improve in a few days,
and, in the words of the mother, "got fat and solid." In the course of a few
months the stock of meat-juice bocame exhausted, and the mother concl uded to
do without it, "since the child had improved so remarkably." She was, however,
obliged to resume It again, us she relates "that on the second day after the
meat-juice was left off, the little girl went quite thin and soft over the
whole body, and became very fretful ;" but on its renewal, in three or four
days the child became healthy and well again. The meat-juice furnished more
than the salts which it contains, as the child became fat, and her flesh
hardened, showing an improvement In the muscular structure. Milk is the natural
and suitable food for infants, but in this case, and doubtless in many others,
the child would have been reduced to starvation if compelled to depend alone
upon the mother's breast for nourishment .

WATER-ITS RELATION TO HEALTH.

The water we drink has been correctly described as a "life-giving and
lifedestroying element." Pure water, like pure air, is essential to good
health. Polluted water, like impure air, is one of the most common sources of
disease. Its natural history reveals the secret of its true quality.

Its Source.—Traced to its origin, water, in its continuous circulation through
the atmosphere and oceans of our globe, is first pure distilled water,
evaporated at comparatively low temperature by the heat of the sun, and raised
far up in mid-air, and drifted slowly toward the poles of the earth by the
return trade-winds. When warm air-currents, saturated with watery vapor, meet
with colder ones, their capacity for holding water in solution is diminished; a
portion of the latter is condensed and is precipitated in the form of rain,
snow, hail or dew, in a state of almost absolute purity, upon the mountains and
lowlands. Thus it comes down pure upon the ground, filters through a wholesome
soil, issues in abundant springs, gravitates toward the water basins of the
earth, and gradually drains into the ocean, from which, in process of time, it
will again be converted into vapor, and re-enter into its ceaseless
circulation. All supplies of fresh water are, therefore, derived from
condensation of the watery vapor contained in the atmosphere.

Spring and Well-water in the Country.—In rural districts the water of springs
and wells is comparatively pure. The pure rain (always pure when it first falls
unless the air through which it passes is filled with noxious gasses)
percolates through the soil, and filtrates into the subterraneous water strata
or fountains, and thence issues in a comparatively pure condition at the open
spring or well. Of course, the "purer the soil filter, the purer the spring."

How Water Becomes Polluted.—The pure water after falling from the clouds
filters through the soil, and carries from the rocks and soil certain soluble
parts, the nature and amount of which depend upon the nature of the rock and
soil It is always contaminated by passing through a drainage area of polluted
ground. In this respect, the increasing density of population and the
encroachment of civilization upon the primeval state of the earth's surface
have largely altered these conditions for a supply of pure water. Not only in
crowded centers of population and industry, but also in some agricultural
districts, the soil is more or less contaminated with sewage and all kinds of
effete or decaying matters.

Well-water Often Dangerous.—Few wells, as ordinarily constructed, are free from
surface pollution. Their walls are open from bottom to top foi the inflow of
the water from the contaminated soil and surface-water

around. A densely crowded population soon impregnate the surface soil with
filth, which drains into the water-course below, especially if such water is
near the surface; the walls of the wells are so constructed as not to prevent
its inflow. "Artesian wells" and "deep driven wells " from which the surface
water is excluded furnish the best water, (except pure rain water,) which can
be obtained with the expense of lengthy and tightly-closed conduits, in which
the water is brought from a distance and from unpolluted reservoirs.

Caution in Locating Wells.—Every well should be widely separated from
barn-yards, cess-pools, pens, sinks, and similar places, and should not be
simply stoned up with loose stones or bricks, so that any surface liquid that
filters through the soil has free access; but its walls should be made
water-tight with cement, so that nothing can reach them except that which has
been filtered through dense beds of unpolluted ground below. If this precaution
is neglected, the best and deepest well may become continually contaminated by
infiltration from the surrounding surface. If, at any time, no good drinking
water can be had, or its purity appears doubtful, the only way to remove its
dangerous qualities is to filter the water through thick layers of fine sand,
or, better, through ground charcoal or animal charcoal.

Care in Constructing Cisterns.— Cisterns should be constructed of suitable
material, carefully built and covered, and so placed that no foul air can pass
through or over the water they contain. The overflow pipes from cisterns should
be free from connection with any other pipes. Eoofs and gutters supplying
cisterns must be frequently inspected, and some simple contrivance should be
adopted to insure their careful cleansing before the water is allowed to run
into the cistern. Cistern water ought to be frequently examined, and be kept
free from color, odor, or other indications of impurity.

How to Examine Suspected Water.—A simple method of examination is by dissolving
a lump of loaf-sugar in a quantity of the suspected water in a clean bottle,
which should have a close-fitting glass stopper. Set the bottle in the window
of a room where the sunlight will fall on it. If the water remains bright and
limpid after a week's exposure, it may be pronounced fit for use. But if it
becomes turbid during the week it contains enough impurity to be unhealthy.
Such water should not be used for drinking purposes until it has been boiled
and filtered; after which it should be aerated by any simple process, such as
pouring several times from one vessel into another in the open air. This is
Heinsch's water test.

Purifying Water With Alum.—It is not generally known that pounded alum
possesses the property of purifying water. A tablespoonful of pulverized alum
sprinkled into a hogshead of water (the water stirred at the time) will, after
the lapse of a few hours, by precipitating to the bottom the impure particles,
so purify it that it will be found to possess all the freshness and clearness
of the finest spring water. A pailful containing four gallons may be purified
by a single teaspoonful.

Is Soft Water Better than Hard Water for Drinking Purposes ?—

Waters which contain only small quantities of these lime and magnesia compounds
are said to be "soft," while those which contain them in greater pro portion
are described as being "hard." It is not advisable to use habitually a very
hard water either for culinary or dietetic purposes; the presence, how ever, of
a fair amount of these saline impurities—the occurrence of which constitutes
"hardness "—rather increases than impairs the value of water as a beverage.
There are, though, it should never be forgotten, certain other impurities
sometimes found in water which render it quite unfit for use, and which have,
indeed, been the cause of much disease and suffering, when water containing
them has been used for dietetic purposes. Spring water is best adapted for
drink when it is soft, although it is often oppressive to weak stomachs. It
often proves injurious to domestic animals when they are confined to it, and is
particularly disliked by horses.

Water-Cure or Hydropathy.—Water has been used in the treatment of disease from
very early times. By the Priessnitz system water alone is used as a cure for
nearly all diseases. Among the processes of hydropathy are the Sitz bath, the
douche, the shower bath, and cold water compresses. For the beneficial
application of water treatment in various diseases, the reader is referred to
the ensuing pages.

Water a Powerful Absorbent.—Few persons know how certainly and rapidly water
imbibes the impurities of the air. Many of us think if the water be clear and
cold it must be perfectly pure, though it has stood in a close bedroom
twenty-four hours; but this is far from true. If a pitcher of water be set in a
room for only a few hours it will absorb nearly all the respired and perspired
gases in the room, the air of which will have become purer, but the water
utterly filthy. The colder the water is, the greater the capacity to contain
these gases. At ordinary temperatures, a pail of water can contain a great
amount of ammonia and carbonic-acid gas; and its capacity to absorb these gases
is nearly doubled by reducing the water to a temperature of ioe.

Caution Concerning Standing Water.—The inference is, therefore, plain and
irresistible that water kept in a room over night is totally unfit for drinking
purposes, and should not be used to gargle in the throat; also, that a large
pail of water standing in a room would help to purify the atmosphere, but
should be thrown away the next morning; it also teaches us the reason that the
water from a pump should always be pumped out in the morning before any is
used.

Distilled Water.—Absolutely pure water is only to be obtained by distillation.
It> is then so insipid that we are unable to drink it, because it does not
contain the solid matter we are accustomed to drink.

Do Lead Pipes Poison the Water 1—So general is the impression that water
becomes impregnated with the poison by standing in lead pipes and metallic
lined water pitchers that many writers on hygiene recommend that lead pipes
should be avoided when possible; and then when used the water should "run
awhile before using." This precaution can do no harm, and yet the question
whether water is poisoned by flowing through lead pipes was lately discussed in
the French Academy of Sciences, with results that are calculated to quiet the
apprehensions of those who get their water supply through such pipes. M. Dumas
stated that in his chemical lectures he had long been accustomed to employ a
very simple experiment for the purpose of showing that water corrodes lead only
under special conditions. He takes distilled water, rain water, spring water,
river water, etc., and drops into each a piece of lead. It is found that only
the distilled water acts on the lead, the salts of lime in the rest of the
specimens preventing the reaction. M. Belgrand read to the Academy a memoir
giving the results of his investigations into this subject. The ancient Romans
employed lead water pipes on a large scale, but yet no Latin medical writer
says any thing of lead poisoning produced by the water. According to M.
Belgrand, one sixth of a grain of calcareous salts to the quart prevents the
dissolution of the lead. He exhibited to the Academy pieces of lead pipes which
had been in service from the time of Louis XIV., without showing any sign of
corrosion; and analysis of water that had passed through a long line of lead
pipes showed the complete absence of lead.

ICE WATER AND HEALTH.

Ice Water Hinders Digestion.—Cold water is a less rapid solvent than wai m
water, as cold air is a better preservative than warm air. So ice water taken
into the stomach chills the coats and contents of that organ, and thus suddenly
checks and hinders the digestion of the food.

Iced Drinks Affecting the Head.—An intelligent and influential medical journal
says very sensibly, "Drinks should be sipped, not gulped," and adds: "The
intimate connection between stomach and brain is known to every body, and it
must be obvious that to pour an iced draught into the stomach must at once send
the blood to the head. Very few who have indulged m the rapid drinking of these
beverages have failed to notice that a sudden pain in the head was the result.
It may have been a sharp shoot, or a mere feeling of dullness, and it may have
passed off in a moment, but it was at least incipient congestion of the brain."

Other Evils of Iced Drinks.—Another eminent hygienic authority urges that "no
well man has any business to eat ices or drink iced liquids in any shape or
form, if he wants to preserve his teeth, protect the tone of his stomach, and
guard against sudden inflammations and prolonged dyspepsia. It is enough to
make one shudder to see a beautiful young girl sipping scalding coffee or tea
at the beginning of a meal, and then close it with a glass of icewater; for at
thirty she must either be snaggle-toothed, or wear those of the dead or
artificial."

A Suggestive Caution about Ice.—Dr. W. W. Hall, in one of his Ilealth Tracts,
has these suggestive words: "If the reader is down town or away from home on a
hot day, and feels as if it would be perfectly delicious to have a glass of
lemonade, soda-water, or brandy toddy, by all means let him resist the
temptation until he gets home, and then take a glass of cool water, a swallow
at a time, with a second or two interval between each swallow. Several
noteworthy results will most assuredly follow.

"After it is all over, you will feel quite as well from a drink of water as if
you had enjoyed a free swig of either of the others.

"In ten minutes after you will feel a great deal better.

"You will not have been poisoned by the lead or copper which is most often
found in soda-water.

"You will be richer by six cents, which will be the interest on a dollar for a
whole year 1

"You will not have fallen down dead from the sudden chills which sometimes
result from drinking soda, iced water, or toddy in a hurry."

How to Cool Drinking Water without Ice.—Fresh spring or well water is
abundantly cool for any drinking purpose whatever. In cities where water is
artificially supplied, the case is somewhat different; but even then there is
no good excuse for drinking ice-water, because, even if the excuse were good in
itself, the effects on the stomach and teeth are the same.

Make a bag of thick woolen doubled, lined with muslin; fill it with ice; have
in a pitcher an inch or two of water above the faucet, and let this bag of ice
be suspended from the cover within two inches of the surface of the water. The
ice will melt slowly and keep the water delightfully cool, but not ice cold. A
still better effect will be produced if the pitcher is also well eiveloped in
woolen. Again, water almost as cool as it can be, unless it has ice actually in
it, may be had without any ice at all by enveloping a closed pitcher partly
filled with water with several folds of cotton, linen, or bagging, and so
arranging it that these folds are kept wet all the time by water dripping from
another vessel, on the principle of evaporation.

Water which is. not iced may be drank freely throughout the meal, as the
natural thirst demands.

SUMMER BEVERAGES.

Avoid all Alcoholic Drink.—Any drink which contains alcohol, (even cider, beer,
and domestic cordials,) is not only not harmless, but positively injurious,
because a single atom of alcohol, by using the strength of the present, leaves
the system just that much weaker than it would have been had not that atom of
alcohol been taken. The atom of alcohol has not one particle of nutriment, and
hence cannot supply the system with one atom of strength. See chapter on
"Alcoholic Drinks."

Good Cool Water.—The first and the best, because the safest, drink for
laborers, invalids, the sedentary, for all times of the day and night, is half
a glass at a time, repeated in ten minutes, if desired, of common water. As
already indicated in the chapter on " Water," it should not be used too cold,
nor in large quantities at a time. All the water taken into the stomach must
pass away. If it be in excessive quantities, the strain upon the system will be
too great. The skin, the kidneys, bowels, lungs, all are drawn upon. The result
is, as may be naturally expected, exhaustion. For this reason, the man who
drinks much water, particularly during the summer, and in the hottest weather,
is less able to endure fatigue. The excess of water is of no benefit to him. A
safe rule is to drink only a little at a time.

To Allay Thirst Without Drinking.—Cold water applied to the head is very
refreshing to harvesters. Wading in water abates thirst. Persons cast away at
sea will suffer less from thirst if the clothing is kept wringing wet with salt
water. A piece of silk fitted in the hat at an equal distance from the hair and
top of the hat is a great protection to the head against s^n heat; it is an
absolute protection if one side is well covered with gold leaf. As there is
always a space between the top of the head and the crown of the hat, hatters
should utilize this idea.

The Best Kind of Water.—According to Dr. Gautier, the best drinking water
should be destitute of any particular taste, and must be positively rejected
should it contain any odor whatever. Its temperature should be comprised
between forty-two degrees and sixty degrees Fahrenheit. As the water introduces
not only oxygen and hydrogen into the system in the proportions necessary to
form water, but also such mineral substances, in solution, as are indispensable
to life, it will be readily understood that absolutely pure water is not suited
for the sustenance of life. There must, however, be a limit to the quantity of
such foreign ingredients, under the penalty of injury to health.

Lemonade and Lemons.—Lemonade is a simple and grateful beverage. To make it
"best," roll the lemons on something hard till they become soft; cut or grate
off the rinds, cut the lemons in slices, and squeeze them in a

t

pitcher, (a new clothes-pin will answer for a squeezer in lieu of something
better;) pour on the required quantity of water, and sweeten according to
taste. After mixing thoroughly, set the pitqher aside for half an hour, then
strain the liquor through a jelly strainer, and put in the ice. Do not drink
lemonade if your physician tells you there is an excess of acid in your system.

Lemon Sugar for Travelers.—Travelers who find it inconvenient to use lemons can
carry a box of lemon sugar, prepared from citric acid and sugar, a little of
which in a glass of water will furnish quite a refreshing drink, and one that
will help oftentimes to avert sick-headache and biliousness: Citric acid is
obtained from the juice of lemons and limes.*

Lemons for Excessive Thirst.—When persons are feverish and thirsty beyond what
is natural, indicated in some cases by a metallic taste in the mouth,
especially after drinking water, or by a whitish appearance of the greater part
of the surface of the tongue, one of the best "coolers," internal or external,
is to take a lemon, cut off the top, sprinkle over it some loaf sugar, working
it downward into the lemon with the spoon, and then suck it slowly, squeezing
the lemon, and adding more sugar as the acidity increases from being brought up
from a lower point.

Lemons for Invalids.'—Invalids with feverishness may take two or three lemons a
day in this manner, with the most marked benefit, manifested by a sense of
coolness, comfort, and invigoration.

Lemons at "Tea-time."—A lemon or two thus taken at "tea-time," as an entire
substitute for the ordinary " supper" of summer, would give many a mjn a
comfortable night's sleep and an awakening of rest and invigoration, with an
appetite for breakfast, to which they are strangers who will have their cup of
tea or supper of "relish" or "cake" and berries or peaches and cream. \

Organic Matter in Drinking Water.—The presence of organic matter in waters has
been considered one of the principal causes of any injurious

* While traveling recently, says Dr. A. N. Bell in the Sanitarian, our
attention was inconveniently called one morning to empty water tanks. But there
were others, children especially, who, on crawling out of the sleeping bunks,
were in want of water more than we were—to drink. It was long, however, before
the cars halted, and the tanks were filled from a road-side stream. Of this the
thirsty drank. We ventured to suggest to the porter that possibly this water
was not wholesome. But the suggestion that "water as clear as that" was not
clean, to him was absurd. The same suggestion to the conductor was equally
Incomprehensible. It is just snch water that collects and holds in solution the
poison of typhoid fever, which summer travelers so often take home with them.

t The lemon thus eaten was the great physical solace of General Jackson in his
last illness, which was consumption combined with dropsy. It loosened the
cough, and relieved him of much of that annoying hacking and hemming which
attends diseases of the throat and lungs, being many times more efficient,
speedy, and safe than any lozenge 01 M trocho" ever swallowed.

qualities they may possess; to their presence being attributed the development
of such diseases as diarrhoea, dysentery, intermittent fever, typhoid fever,
etc. Of these ingredients, carbonate of lime is the most common, and of this
there may be, without inconvenience, 10-100 to 20-100 of a gramme to the litre.
An appreciable percentage of phosphate of lime renders the water unfit for
domestic and industrial uses; and for general purposes there should not be a
greater percentage than 2-100 to 5-100 of a gramme to the litre. Small
percentages of the chlorides generally affect water disadvantageous^ for
drinking purposes. The maximum, however, should be 8-100 to 10-100 of a gramme
to the litre.

Various Drinks.—If any thing is added to the summer drink it should contain
some nutriment, so as to strengthen the body as well as to dilute the blood for
the purpose of a more easy flow through the system; as any one knows that the
thinner a fluid is the more easily does it flow. Some of the nutritious and
safe drinks are given below, especially for those who work in the sun of
summer, all to be taken at the natural temperature of the shadiest spot in the
locality. To any of them ice may be added, but it is a luxurious, not a
beneficial, ingredient nor a safe one.

1. Buttermilk.

2. A pint of molasses to a gallon of water.

3. A lemon to half a gallon of water and a teacupful of molasses, or as much
sugar.

4. Vinegar, sugar, and water are substitutes, but the vinegar is not a natural
acid, contains free alcohol, hence is not as safe or healthful.

5. A thin gruel made of corn or oats, drank warm, is strengthening.

6. A pint of grapes, currants, or garden-berries to half a gallon of water is
agreeable.

Orangeade Medically Prescribed.—Dr. Walter Lewis, in describing the precautions
against cholera adopted at the General Post-office, in London, Eng., says: "The
men employed in sorting letters and newspapers suffer much from thirst,
especially in the hot weather, and consequently drink much water while engaged
in their duties. Although the post-office is supplied with excellent water,
much diarrhoea was, nevertheless, the result of this practice. To remedy this,
the officers, clerks, and men of all classes, have of late been supplied from
the medical department with a most agreeable drink, which not only assuages the
thirst, but has, moreover, strong antiseptic and anti-diarrhoea properties. It
is called orangeade, and is thus composed: Take of dilute sulphuric acid,
concentrated infusion of orange peel, each twelve drams; syrup of orange peel,
five fluid ounces. This quantity is added to two imperial gallons of water. A
large wine-glassful is taken for a draught, mixed with more or less water,
according to taste. The officers drink this with pleasure. It is being consumed
in large quantities daily, and I am convinced it will be the means of warding
off a great deal of sickness."

Ices and Ice-cream.—The growing use of ices, and the custom of taking ice-water
or other very cold drinks or food, as ice-cream, etc., cannot but prove
unfavorable to health, especially when one has low vital power, with
insufficient power of the stomach to react and restore the degree of heat
actually demanded that digestion may proceed naturally. Digestion is ar rested
as soon as the temperature of the stomach falls below about 90 degrees Fah.,
and when cold drinks are taken by the weak, at least some considerable time
must elapse before it is restored; in some instances hours, attended by great
waste of power, and a derangement of the stomach. Cold drinks also excite and
inflame the throat, causing an artificial thirst, never satisfied by such
drinks, to say nothing of the danger of contracting colds by this unnatural
chilling of the stomach, often followed by bowel derangements, inflammation of
the stomach, and by still worse ailments.

TEA AND COFFEE AND HEALTH.

How Tea is Grown.—The tea-plant is a native of China, and resembles the low
whortleberry bush in many respects. The Chinese raise it very much as we raise
corn—three to five plants in a hill, raised from the seed. The plants are not
allowed to grow more than one and a half feet high. Only the medium-sized
leaves are picked, the largest being left to favor the growth of the plant. The
picking occurs (1) in April, of the young and tender leaves; J2) about the
first of May, of the full-sized leaves; and (3) about the middle of July, the
last making an inferior quality of tea.

Preparation of Tea for Market.—Tea leaves are first wilted in the sun, then
trodden in baskets by barefooted men to break the stems, next rolled by the
hands into a spiral shape, then left in a heap to heat again, and finally dried
for the market. This constitutes black tea, the frequent exposure to the air
and to heat giving it its dark color.

For green tea the leaves, instead of being first exposed to the air, are fired
for a short time as soon as gathered, then rolled and quickly dried over a
fire.

The green tea of commerce is artificially colored with tumeric powder anil a
mixture of gypsum and Prussian blue, the latter in very minute proportions.

Canton teas are usually scented by the infusion of the blossoms of certain
aromatic plants.

In this country damaged teas and the "grounds" left at hotels are rerolled,
highly colored, packed in old tea-chests, and sent out as new teas.

Certaim varieties of black tea, even, receive a coating of black lead to make
them shiny.*

The Chinese always drink black tea, using no milk or sugar, and prepare it, not
by steeping, but by pouring hot water on the tea, and allowing it to stand for
a few moments.

The Tea Plant in Respect of Quality.—The tea plant will bear a wide range of
climatic variation without serious deterioration. The richness of the soil and
the mode of cultivation exercise a paramount influence on the quality of the
tea. In this respect the tea-plant is like the tobaccoplant or the
mulberry-tree.

The youngest leaves give the best tea; hence the high price of choice teas, for
to produce any considerable weight of young leaves a great number of plants are
required, while the same weight of old or full-grown leaves is produced by a
comparatively small number of plants. The age of tea leaves may be ascertained
by a chemical examination of the ash left on burning them. As the leaves grow
they lose in potash and phosphoric acid, both absolutely and relatively, and
gain in lime and silica. Examinations made at periods of fourteen days asunder
exhibit these phenomena with sufficient distinctness. In the practical
examination of teas there is a very valua'jle and simple rule: Mucfi potash and
phosphor ic acid, together with little limt. and silica, means good tea, and
the reverse poor tea.\

Tea and Digestion.—Tea possesses an active principle called theine. It contains
tannin, which, if the tea is strong, coagulates the albumen of the
food—actually tans it—and thus delays digestion.

Tea-Drinking and Sick-Headache; An Illustration. — The importance of the
question involved in this caption leads us to insert here—though in a
re-arranged form—the history of a case, reported originally by R. B. Gregg, for
the Homeopathic Quarterly Review, and later printed by permis

* A splendid specimen of tea, grown in the Himalayas, was chemically examined
by Zoller, and the following results obtained. In 100 parts of the tea there
were 4.95 pnrts of moisture, and 6.63 parts of ash. The ash contained in 100
parts, showed the following ingredients:

Sulphuric acid trace.

Chlorine a81

Silica 4.85

Carbonic acid

Total.

. 100.00

Potash 89.22

Boda 0.«5

Magnesia 6.47

Lime 4 24

Oxide of iron 4.38

Protoxide of manganese 1 <»8

Phosphoric acid 14.55

t"Oolong"—A variety of black tea, possessing the flavor of green tea. "IItl*on
"—A fragrant species of green tea.

"Gunpowder "—A species of green tea, each leaf of which is rolled into a small
ball or idlet .

"Souchong"—A kind of black tea.

[ocr errors]

sion in e. health magazine edited by one of the compilers of the present
volume. The entire case is presented in the language of the writer—a competent
witness.

The Doctrine Stated.—The writer says: "From considerable observation I have
come to view tea as a more prolific cause of that terrible suffering, so aptly
described by the phrase sick-headache, than any other one thing, if it is not
the cause of more cases of this disease than all else besides; and I will give
examples which seem to confirm this view most positively.

A Home Case.—" The first of these, and one of the clearest and most positive in
its evidence, occurred in my own family, and although it may be regarded by
some as a violation of propriety in such matters to so definitely designate the
patient, still the case seems of too much importance, too clear in its proof,
to allow any alternative, or tolerate, in short, any doubt to arise as to its
genuineness by withholding the name. Besides, it will readily be seen that a
physician could hardly become so familiar with all the details of a case, and
remain so for so long a time, outside of his own household.

Was the Case Hereditary ?—" My wife was several years a victim to frequent and
most terrible paroxysms of sick-headache. She commenced suffering from it in
the twenty-fourth year of her age, soon after the birth of our first child. Her
father, mother, and grandmother upon the mother's side, were also all great
sufferers from the same—the grandmother till she died, the father and mother
are so still. From this fact I attributed its appearance in my wife's case to a
strong hereditary predisposition, developed into activity by the change her
system had recently passed through, and so regarded it for four or five years.
And believing, as I do, that inherited diseases ought to be cured so long as
they remain functional, or before any real organic changes have taken place in
them, I gave my attention to the means of cure, without regarding the cause
beyond what has just been men. tioned.

Failure of Remedies.—" In regard to curing, however, I was doomed to
disappointment, for not the slightest curative action was established in her
case. During the first three or four years medicines frequently mitigated the
severity of the paroxysm, but these would recur just as often; in fact they
increased in frequency from year to year, until they occurred commonly every
week, and became so violent that nothing afforded any relief; and then she used
to say that, in addition to the frequent paroxysmal attacks, she did not pass a
minute at any time, when awake, without more or less pain in the head. Under
this state of things other and more serious symptoms began also to manifest
themselves, which appeared as though they must sooner or later lead to
paralysis, if they were not arrested.

[ocr errors]

More Careful Investigation.—" Medical aid having now, for so long a

time, completely failed to do what it certainly seemed that it ought, and what
results in the treatment of other maladies would lead us to expect, I began
more seriously to consider the cause of her trouble, to see if this was not in
part, at least, to be found in some daily habits of living, instead of its all
being hereditary; or if not this, then to see if there was not something in
those habits which was continuously acting in a manner to prevent medicines
from developing their curative effects.

The True Cause Suspected.—" I then recalled the facts, that she had never drank
tea until after she was married; that she had drank it, invariably, three times
a day from that time—she was not in the habit of drinking coffee; that she
never had a sick headache until some three years after commencing the use of
tea; and that she never went without it one meal after the headaches began to
trouble her but sbte was sure to have one of her most severe paroxysms. From
this last fact, and the more I reflected upon it, the more confident I became
that the tea had something, at least, to do either in causing or aggravating
her disease.

The Usual Answer.—"Upon this conviction becoming more fully impressed upon my
mind, I urged her to leave off drinking tea entirely, and substitute cold water
for it. This, however, she thought both very unpleasant and difficult to do. So
time passed on for a year or two longer, and with it an increase of suffering,
until it became still more clear that something must be done, or very serious
consequences in the way of paralysis, or some kindred disease, would certainly
ensue.

First Efforts for Relief.—" She then abstained from her tea entirely. I told
her she would no doubt suffer severely for a few days, as this appeared
unavoidable, from the fact that she always experienced such increased severity
of pain from going without it one meal; and we were not disappointed. For nine
or ten days her sufferings were continuous, and about half of this time they
were terrible. On the fourth day the pain in the head was so extreme it seemed
that congestion and inflammation of the brain must result, if it continued. She
was writhing in agony the most of that day, entirely unable to sit up, yet
found it almost impossible to lie down, therefore was constantly changing her
position in bed, to find a little relief. After this worst day, however, the
intensity of the pain subsided in a measure, though she still suffered, much of
the time greatly, until the tenth day, when all the acute pain ceased, but the
whole head, both internally and externally, was left very sore.

Relief at Last.—"The soreness continued a week or more, when that, too, passed
off, giving place to a very weak feeling through the head, of some days'
duration; and then she went along some three weeks before another attack of
headache, longer than she had gone before in two or three years, and this was
much lighter, and of shorter duration, than former paroxysms. After this she
went six or seven weeks before another attack, and this was still lighter, and
soon passed over entirely, leaving the head more free from all symptoms than it
had been for years. Following this she had no more trouble until the succeeding
December, about six months from the last paroxysm, above mentioned.

Relapse and Recovery.—" At that time our little daughter had scarlet fever, and
my wife seemed to contract diphtheria from it. At least, she had a severe
attack of this disease, as did very many other adults in this city, that
winter, in families where children had the scarlatina. This left her throat so
sensitive for a short time that she could not drink cold water, but drank tea
three or four days, when she was seized with another severe paroxysm of
sick-headache. Then she abstained from it the second time, and from that day to
the present, nearly three years, she had had but little distress of any kind
from the head, until during a short illness last February, when she drank tea
again, for a week or ten days, and in that time it commenced developing all the
old symptoms. Upon this she wholly abandoned the idea of ever again using it,
convinced that it is one of those agents that her system will not tolerate.

Was the Case " Peculiar ?"—" Now, all this might, with some plausibility, be
said to be the result of a very unusual peculiarity of constitution, a
highly-marked idiosyncrasy, and, therefore, not important in its bearing upon
other cases. But let us consider this point. Fortified with the facts that this
case furnished me, I have advised all patients consulting me the last two
years, for sick-headache, to abandon at once and wholly the use of tea, of any
and all kinds. It has been difficult, though, to induce any to do so, the hold
which habit had upon them being so strong, and utterly impossible to persuade
others to make the sacrifice.

A Remarkable Test.—" Of the few who have complied with my request there were
three men past middle age, and otherwise tolerably healthy, but who were among
those the worst afflicted with this malady of any that I have ever met. One of
these was upward of sixty years of age, and had suffered his entire lifetime,
or from his earliest recollection, with sick-headache, frequently as often as
every week, and sometimes for two days at a time. I prescribed for him several
times, but with no other result than to partially relieve the severity of the
attacks—did not break in at all upon the frequency of their recurrence—so
finally prevailed upon him, two years ago last spring, to abstain from the use
of tea.

As he lived out of the city I never learned the result until three or four
months since, when I one day met him upon the street, and he remarked, 'Well,
doctor, I got rid of my sick-headache9 by stopping tea.' He further said that
his pain was much greater than common for a few days after leaving it off, but
he then went much longer than usual before another attack, which was also less
severe, and after two or three such recurrences, each at longer intervals and
in less violence, they disappeared entirely. And that of late he had tried to
use tea again, but even when taken very weik it brought on many of ihe former
symptoms.

A Second Remarkable Test.—''Another of the three cases was lhat of a man aged
about fifty years. He had been afflicted some thirty yearfc or over, or from
his early manhood, with sick-headache. For some two years or more I was called
to him repeatedly for attacks of this disease, and in several instances had to
attend him two and three days before the symptoms would yield. His distress at
such times was really terrible. No other expression would at all adequately
describe it. He would sometimes go two and even three days without sleep, and
all the time under apparently as extreme pain as a man could endure and retain
his consciousness. Indeed, during two or three of these attacks he did become
very delirious. And finally, also, he began to show marked symptoms of
paralysis, his extremities becoming numb, and in several instances losing the
use of his legs in a great measure, during the severity of the paroxysm. I had
urged him repeatedly to leave off the use of tea, and finally about a year
since, during one of the worst attacks he had ever had, I told him there was no
need of all this, and no sense in his refusing longer to abandon what I
believed to be the cause of it all; and that there was not a doubt in my mind
that his legs would be paralyzed in another year if he continued it. He stopped
the tea then in the midst of that attack, had but one or two light returns of
it afterward, passed the winter free from them, and left here for the West this
last spring, saying he had not been so well in years.

A Third Remarkable Test.—" The third and last of these three cases was that of
a man aged from forty-five to fifty years. Ho, too, was a great and frequent
sufferer from the disease under consideration, and had been for many years,
though the duration of the paroxysms was seldom, if ever, so long as in either
of the other cases; and he found rolief just the same in abandoning tea.

Relief for Most Headache Sufferers.—"Now, then, in view of these cases, is it
not important that all who suffer from sick-headache should be warned against
drinking tea? It should be understood, however, that the claim is not made that
all such cases are caused by this agent, for I well know the contrary to be
true, having met with a few persons who suffered from it that never drank tea.
But from the two or three years' observation, since my mind was more especially
called to the subject, I have no hesitation in declarhig my belief that a large
proportion, if not, indeed, a large majority, of those afflicted with this
disease who do drink tea, will find great, and many entire, relief from
abandoning at once and wholly the use of this beverage.

The Kinds of Tea Used—" With regard to the kinds of tea, there seems to be no
particular difference in their effects upon the nervous system in the cases
given, so that the drinkers of black teas can claim no advantages in this, as
is done in other respects, over those who use the green teas, nor vice versa. 
The relief was just as prompt in abandoning the one as the other. My wife never
drank any other than black tea, and always used it weak. The first one of the
three other cases reported drank black tea also, but strong; the next one used
both black and green strong; while the third, or last, generally drank green
tea very strong. Neither did it appear to make any difference hi regard to
temperaments with these cases, one of the four having black hair and black
eyes, another dark brown hair and hazel eyes, another sandy hair and blue eyes,
and the fourth more of a flaxen hair, and very light blue eyes.

Other Suspected Bad Effects of Tea "The possible effects of tea in

producing other and more serious diseased conditions than we have been
considering should not be overlooked. ... It will have been seen that in two of
the cases reported there were marked indications of paralysis, and there were
certainly reasons to fear that it might become permanent in both. Then, when we
reflect that this disease is so alarmingly on the increase—that, contrary to
what used to be the case, so many young or youngish persons are becoming
paralyzed—it is of the utmost importance to investigate its causes, and see if
tea may not be one of them in some of these cases. Delirium, too, is not an
uncommon attendant upon the severer paroxysms of sick-headache, and may not
this possibly afford a clue to the cause of a few, at least, of the
rapidly-increasing numbers of cases of insanity throughout the civilized world?
"

Tea a Powerful Excitant.—It is not asserted that tea does operate as a cause of
such troubles, for there is no positive proof of it as yet. We all know that
this article is a powerful excitant of the nervous system, and from this fact
alone is as liable to produce insanity as many other agents which affect the
brain.

Tea a Powerful Astringent.—Again, the known astringent properties of tea would
seem as though they must make it a cause of chronic constipation with many who
drink it.

How to Test Each Case Properly.—As for hoping to cure sick-headache by medical
treatment, when tea-drinking is the cause of it, and this is continued, it is
utterly useless to waste time in the endeavor, and the height of absurdity to
expect to produce such a result. No disease was ever yet really cured, where,
through the ignorance or perverseness of the patient, the cause of it was
constantly or frequently renewed. It is not possible that it should be done;
therefore let the physician do his duty in all such cases, and raise the
warning voice; then place the responsibility where it properly belongs, if his
advice is not heeded.

How to "Stop" Drinking Tea.—If patients are advised to break off "gradually,"
the gradual is seldom reached, and when it is, they see no improvement for so
long a time—from the fact that the weaker article is sufficient tc keep the
symptoms active after the resisting power of the nervous system has once been
broken down—that they will almost always abandon the effort, and stoutly
maintain that tea has nothing to do with it. Besides, all the benefits of the
powerful reaction accruing from the sudden stoppage are lost, and the patient
will drag along for months, if not years, to reach that exemption from the
effects that those stopping suddenly will get in a few days, or at most in a
few weeks. When any thing is actually causing suffering, how absurd to continue
it in less strength, hoping that thereby we can compromise with Nature and stop
her protests!

The Old Cry Stated.—But the old mistaken logic often comes to the physician,
thus: "Why, doctor, when I have the headache nothing gives me so much relief as
a good strong cup of tea." This is the best evidence that it injures them. It
is only the temporary relief afforded by a more powerful re-stimulation, while
the next paroxysm must come so much the sooner, or in greater severity, as a
result of the renewed attack upon the nervous forces. In fact, though not so
disreputable, it is only the old cry of the inebriate in his cravings: "Give me
my drinks, they are all that relieve me."

How Tea was Banished from a Minister's Table.—Rev. Br. X., a well-known
minister, furnished us the following record of his experience on the tea
question: Over twenty-five years ago I was in feeble health. One day I visited
an able physician, stated my case, and requested his counsel as to the most
suitable treatment. He responded, "Let us first determine, if possible, the
cause of your imperfect health: do you use tea!"

"I do."

"I thought so," said the doctor. "How so?"

"Your countenance and your general physical symptoms told me the story." "Then
you really think the drinking of tea is hurtful?" I inquired with some
emphasis.

"Often," carefully and considerately responded the doctor, adding, "It
certainly harms you."

I shall never forget the unpleasant surprise I felt at his opinion. I had no
confidence in its correctness, and left him with a feeling akin to contempt for
his judgment—not doubting, however, his sincerity. Soon after, I met an.

other physician, of much larger experience, and of wider renown, especially as
to his knowledge of the pathology of disease. I asked his opinion.

"I would advise you to abstain from the use of tea," was his very first word of
counsel.

"But, doctor, how do you know I use it?"

"The symptoms betray you; I suppose they give correct witness!"

I was nonplused again. After leaving the doctor, I considered the whole
question, and by the time I had readied the parsonage I had nearly determined
to test, by the most careful personal experience, the correctness of the
unexpected and doubtful professional opinion which had now been repeated. My
wife suggested that in a matter of so much importance as health, it would be
"better to err on the safe side;" the omission could "do no harm." The thing
was settled—tea was banished from the table, except when guests were present,
and then it was only used by them. My general health began to improve, and in
less than three months the whole tone of my nervous system became so
transformed for the better as to be a matter of special notice and
congratulation on the part of my friends. From that day to this neither my wife
nor myself have used tea of any kind as a beverage. We occasionally sip it in "
homeopathic doses" when abroad, so as not to excite remark, but its use is only
the record of twenty-five years ago.

Is Tea Good for Well People ?—Tea derives its beneficial qualities not from its
supply of nutrition, for it supplies none, but from its affording theine, the
effect of which in the system is to diminish the waste, thus making less food
necessary at the time tea is taken. Whether such effect is needed depends
largely upon the previous habits of the drinker. Its stimulus is peculiarly
grateful to the aged who have been accustomed to drink it. Our advice to all,
however, is never to drink strong tea, except as a medicine, and under the
advice of a competent and reliable physician. Unless a stimulus is required,
some other warm drink, as "wheat-tea," "corn-tea," or "rice-tea," etc., with
the milk and sugar added, is always to be preferred. The latter are much
relished by those who are accustomed to use them. *

Coffee as a Beverage.—Coffee, though of a taste little allied to tea, de

* It is an incontrovertible physiological fact, says Dr. Hall, that any
artificial stimulus continued for a few days makes the system feel the want of
it, instinctively lean uIM>n it, and look for it; but this is not all; the same
amount of stimulation is demanded every day ; but to create that amount, a
larger and an increasing quantity of the stimulus becomes necessary, or it must
be more frequently supplied. No habitual user of spirits, or of tea and coffee,
can possibly deny this after ten years' practice. As proof, see how much
oflener they drink, or smoke, or chew than when they first entered on the
miserable, useless, and degrading career of self-indulgence. The truth is,
there is no safety except in absolute refu&ft. even to taste a drop or chew an
atom. He who takes one drop may die in the gutter; ho who has the high moral
courage to refuse that first drop, that first atom, never can!

rives its efficiency in precisely the same manner and from nearly the same
substances. Its value and effects in the system are therefore the same as those
above stated. Yet it must be generally conceded that a free coffee drinker will
almost invariably complain of biliousness and present a cadaverous appearance.
For working people, as a rule, coffee will seldom produce this effect; but for
all persons of sedentary habits, who take but little exercise, coffee is not to
be recommended. In the case of coffee, as in that of tea, it should not be
drank strong, except as a medicine. As a rule, coffee is less harmful than tea.

Substitutes for Coffee.—Chocolate is generally much more healthful than coffee;
but care should be used to get it pure. Corn coffee, wheat coffee, and the
other kinds of coffee made from the use of tie n>*sted cereals, are to be
preferred, as in the case of tea.*

THE AIR WE BREATHE.

The Wonder of Breathing.—The perfection of the organs of respiration excites
our wonder. "The hand that formed them must have been divine." So delicate are
these organs, that the slightest pressure would cause exquisite pain, yet tons
of air surge back and forth through their intricate passages, and bathe their
innermost cells. Every year we perform seven million acts of breathing,
inhaling one hundred thousand cubic feet of air, and purifying over three
thousand five hundred tons of blood. This gigantic process goes on constantly,
and never wearies or worries us, and we only wonder at it when science reveals
to us its magnitude. In addition, by a wise economy, the process of respiration
is made to subserve a second use no less important, and the air we exhale,
passing through the organs of voice, is transformed into prayers of faith,
songs of thanksgiving and praise, and words of love and social enjoyment.

Fresh Air Constantly Needed.f—None of the wants of the human body are so
constant and pressing as that of air. Other demands may be met by occasional
supplies, but the air must be furnished every moment or we sicken and die.

* il Children who drink tea and cofl^ce,,' says Dr. Ferguson, of England, "as a
rule, only grow four pounds per annum between the ages of thirteen and sixteen,
whils those who drink milk night and morning grow fifteen pounds each year.
When diseases are prevalent in the neighborhood children who use these drinks
have less power to resist sickness than others.

t Mr. Louis Winters, a scnlptor and mason at Stoke-Newington, England,
describes an interesting natural curiosity in his house. Some years ago he
observed on the banks of the Tlmiaes, at Kew, a small wasp's nest. This he
carefully secured, after stupefying the insects by the fumes of wetted
gunpowder. Removing the nest, then about the size ol an ordinary apple, to his
house, he placed it in a glass case inside the outer wall of the build'

What is Pure Air ?—The air we breathe is composed of nitrogen, oxygen, carbonic
acid, and watery vapor. The first forma four fifths, the second one fifth, the
third about It^to' and the last a variable amount. The nitrogen and oxygen form
so large a part, that they are considered in ordinary calculations to compose
the whole atmosphere. In the animal world the oxygen is the life-giving
element, and carbonic acid the destroyer, while in the vegetable world this
order is exactly reversed. Thus, deprived of plants we should soon exhaust the
oxygen from the air, supply its place with carbonic acid, and die; while they,
removed from us, would soon exhaust the carbonic acid, and die as certainly.
The nitrogen is of a negative character, and neither supports life nor destroys
it. Yet we cannot live without it, for the oxygen would be too active, and our
life would be excited to a pitch of which we can scarcely dream, and would
sweep through its feverish course in a few days. The watery vapor supplies the
animal and vegetable worlds with water. Were the air perfectly dry,, our flesh
would become shriveled like a mummy's, and leaves would wither as in an African
simoom. Any thing that changes the proportion of these elements render air
impure.

How Fresh Air Purifies the Blood.—In the delicate cells of the lungs the air
gives up its oxygen to the blood, and receives in turn carbonic acid gas and
water, foul with waste matter which the blood has picked up in its circulation
through the body. The blood thus purified and laden with the inspiring oxygen,
goes bounding through the system, while the air we exhale carries off the
impurities. In this process the blood changes from purple to red, while if we
examine our breath we can readily see what it has removed from the blood.*

itig, through which he bored a small hole for ingress and egress, and carved
the figure of a beehive on the outsdrte. The wasps took kindly to their new
abode, especially as several gardens and nurseries adjoin the house. They have
subsequently increased wonderfully in numbers, and have enlarged the nest until
it is nearly a foot in diameter. It is calculated that the present number of
wasps must be at least sxjveral thousands. The glass case, which is usually
covered and darkened, permits the unflsgging diligenco of the little architects
to be closely watched. But the most interesting feature of the community within
is their persistent and systematic attention to ventilation'. In this respect
they are a model to human householders. During the recent hot weather from four
to six waspa were continually stationed at the hole of egress, and, while
leaving space for entrance or exit, creute'i it xtetuiy cur<ent of frenh air by
the exceedingly rapid motion of their irinys. After a long erurse of this
vigorous exercise, the ventilators were relieved by other wasps. During the
cooler weather only two wasps at a time were usually thus engaged. The utmost
harmony and industry appeared to pervade this 1 trange and crowded
esiablishment of interesting but much maligned little creatures.

* Let those who wish to test this, breathe into a jar, then lower into it a
lighted candle. The flame will be extinguished immediately, thus showing the
presence of carbonic acid gas. Or breathe upon a mirror, and a film of moisture
will show the vapor. If the breath is confined in a bottlo for a time, the
animal matter will decompose, aud give oir an offensive smell -stkhle.

Our exhaled breath, therefore, is the air robbed of its vitality, and
containing m its place a gas which is as fatal to life as it is to a flame, and
effete matter which at the best is disagreeable to the smell, injurious to the
health, and may contain the germs of disease. Air containing only three or four
per cent, of carbonic acid gas acts as a narcotic poison, and a much smaller
proportion will have an injurious effect. Careful investigations show that air
containing more than six tent/is of one per cent, of carbonic acid in one
thotaemd parts of air, is really adverse to comfort, and obnoxious to health,
the vitiated condition increasing in proportion to the increase of the carbonic
acid.

Capacity of the Lungs for Air.—There are in an average sized and well'developed
human body about six hundred millions of air cells, into which the air passes
in order to purify the blood. According to Hutchinson, a man of medium height
will expel at a single full breath about two hundred and thirty cubic inches,
or a gallon, and for each inch in height between five and six feet, there will
be an increase of eight cubic inches. In addition, it is found that the lungs
contain about one hundred cubic inches which cannot be expelled, thus making
their entire contents about three hundred and thirty cubic inches, or eleven
pints. The extra amount always on hand in the lungs is of great value, since
thereby the action of the air goes on continuously, even during a violent
expiration.

Amount of Air we Breathe.—A full sized man takes into his lungs at each breath
about a pint of air; while in there all the life-nutriment is extracted from
it; and on its being sent out of the body, it is so entirely destitute of
life-giving power, that if re-breathed into the lungs again without the
admixture of pure air, the individual would suffocate, would die in sixty
seconds. As a man breathes about eighteen times in a minute, and a pint at each
breath, he consumes over two hogsheads of air every hour, or about sixteen
hogsheads during the eight hours of sleep; that is, if a man were put in a room
which would hold sixteen hogsheads of air, he would, during eight houis' sleep,
extract from it every atom of life-nutriment, and would die at the end of eight
hours, even if each breath could be kept to itself, provided no air came into
the room from without.

Healthful Respiration.*—Respiration consists of two acts, inspiration,

• Sighing is merely a prolonged inspiration, followed by an audible expiration.

Coughiuq is a violent expiration in which the air is driven through the mouth.

Sneezing differs from coughing, the air being forced through the nose.

Snoring is a sleeping accompaniment, in which the air passes through the nose
and mouth. Tho peculiar sound is produced by the palate napping in this divided
currant of air, and so throwing it into vibration.

Laughing and Crying are very much alike, the expression of the face being
necessary to distinguish between Lhem. The sounds arc produced by short, rapid
contraction of the diaphragm.

taking in the air, and expiration, expelling it from the lungs. When we draw in
a full breath we straighten the spine, and throw back the head and shoulders so
as to give the greatest advantage to the muscles. At the same time the
diaphragm descends and presses the walls of the abdomen outward, both of which
processes increase the size of the chest. Then the elastic lungs expand to
occupy the extra space, while the air rushing in through the windpipe pours
along the bronchial tubes, and crowds into every cell.

When we forcibly expel the air from our lungs the operation is reversed. This
is called expiration. We bend forward, draw in the walls of the abdomen, and
press the diaphragm upward, while the ribs are pulled downward— all together
diminishing the size of the chest, and forcing the air outward. Ordinary, quiet
breathing is performed mainly by the diaphragm, one breath to every four beats
of the heart; or eighteen per minute.

Relief from Hiccough.—The following simp'e directions have proved successful in
numerous cases, and bear the mdorsements severally of responsible names :—

1. "Holding the breath" as long as possible.

2. Drinking as many successive swallows as possible without breathing.

3. Startling the patient by a sudden motion or communication.

4. Eating sugar, or drinking "sugared water." The latter is often given to
infants by their nurses as a "sure cure."

5. Concentrating the mind intensely upon some subject.

6. Hold up the right arm, extending the hand as far as possible, and look at
it.

How to Check Sneezing, Coughing, etc.—Dr. Brown-Sequard, in one of his Boston
lectures, says: "There are many facts which show that morbid phenomena of
respiration can be also stopped by the influence of arrest. Coughing, for
instance, can be stopped by pressing on the nerves on the lip in the
neighborhood of the nose. A pressure there may prevent a cough when it is
beginning. Sneezing may be stopped by the same mechanism. Pressing in the
neighborhood of the ear, right in front of the ear, may stop coughing. It is so
also of hiccough, but much less so than for sneezing or coughing.

"Pressing very hard on the top of the mouth, inside, is also a means of
stopping coughing. And I may say that the will has immense power there.

Biscougk Is confined to inspiration, and is caused by a contraction of the
diaphragm, and a constriction of the glottis.

Yawning or an ping is tike sighing. It is distinguished by a wide opening of
the mouth, and a deep, profound inspiration. Both processes furnish additional
air, and. therefore, probably meet a demand of the system for more oxygen.
Frfquently they are like laughing, sobbing, etc., a sort of contagion which
runs through an audience, and seems almost irresistible.

There was a French surgeon who used to say, whenever he entered the wards of
the hospital, The first patient who coughs here will be deprived of his food
to-day. It was exceedingly rare that a patient coughed then.

"There are many other affections associated with breathing, which can be
stopped by the same mechanism that stops the heart's action. In spasm of the
glottis, which is a terrible thing in children, as you well know, as it
sometimes causes death, and also in whooping-cough, it is possible to afford
relief by throwing cold water on the feet, or by tickling the soles of the
feet, which produces laughter, and at the same time goes to the matter that is
producing the spasm, and arrests it almost at once. I would not say that we can
always prevent cough by our will; but in many instances those things are
possible, and if you remember that in bronchitis and pneumonia, or any other
acute affection of the lungs, hacking or coughing greatly increases the trouble
at times, you can easily see how important it is for the patient to try to
avoid coughing as best he can."

Evil Effect of Breathing Respired Air.—If we take back into our lungs that
which has been expelled, we soon feel the effect. The muscles after a time
become inactive, the blood stagnates, the heart acts slowly, the food is
undigested, the brain is clogged. The constant breathing of even the slightly
impure air of our houses cannot but tend to undermine the health. The blood is
not purified, and is in a condition to receive the seeds of disease at any
time. The system uninspired by the energizing oxygen is sensitive to cold. The
pale cheek, the lusterless eye, the languid step, speak too plainly of oxygen
starvation.

In such a soil catarrh, scrofula, pneumonia and consumption run riot. Black, in
his "Ten Laws of Health," says, "The lack of what is so abutdant, and so
cheap—good, pure air—is unquestionably the one great cause of pulmonary
consumption."

The foul air which passes off from the lungs and the pores of the skm does not
fall to the floor, but diffuses itself through the surrounding atmosphere. A
single breath will to a trifling extent taint the air of a whole room.

The Air in Rooms Vitiated by Lighted Fires.—It is estimated that a light or a
fire will vitiate as much air as a dozen persons. Carbonic oxi le gas, a
product of combustion more deadly than carbonic acid gas, leaks o nt from a
stove through the pores of the hot iron, and, besides the air which it draws
from the room, it actually poisons that which we breathe. Many breaths and
lights rapidly unfit the air of a room for use.

Impure Air in Small Rooms and Tenement Houses. — Small, illventilated sleeping
rooms, in which re-heated air is ever present, are nurseries of consumption,
and an eminent physician says that this disease could as effectually be guarded
against by proper attention to ventilation, as small pox by vaccination. To a
lack of pure air may be attributed the existence of nearly all the prevalent
diseases classed under the head of scrofulous diseases. Some physicians
attribute the prevalence of intemperance among the lower classes to the effect
of bad ventilation in the crowded tenements, which produces a degree of
lethargy sufficient to drive them to the rum shop for stimulants.

How to Ventilate Houses.—Every sleeping apartment should have a fire-place with
an open chimney, and in cold weather it is well if the grate contains a small
fire, enough to create a current and carry the vitiated air out of the room. In
such cases, however, it is necessary to see that the air drawn into the room
comes in from the outside of the house. Summer or winter, it is well to have a
free ingress for pure air. The aim must be to purify the air without causing a
great fall of temperature. To accomplish this, the windows may be drawn down an
inch or two from the top, and a fold of muslin placed over the aperture to
prevent draught.*

Where the body is kept warm and pure air only inhaled, there is no more danger
of taking cold in sleeping directly between two windows all the year round than
there is of taking cold in riding in an open sleigh when thoroughly warmed by
wrappings of furs and robes; and such a thing as taking cold under such
conditions never occurs, providing, always, the thorough warming of the feet
and back, which are often neglected.

Air in Sick Rooms.—Fresh air is one of the most important and difficult things
to obtain and retain in a sick room. The following simple ar rangement will
remedy the evil of foul gas, generated by burning a kerosene lamp all night in
a nursery or sick room :—

Take a raisin-box or any other suitably sized box that will contain the lamp
when set up on end. Place the lamp in the box, outside the window, with the
open side facing the room. When there are blinds, the box can be attached to
each by leaving them a little open, and fastening with a cord; or the lamp box
can be nailed to the window casing in a permanent manner. The lamp burns quite
as well outside, and a decided improvement of the air in the roon> is
experienced.

Bad Air in School and Lecture Rooms.—Our school rooms, heated by furnaces or
red hot stoves, often have no means of ventilation, or, if provid ed, these are
seldom used. Pupils starved by scanty lung food (and we migh* add brain food)
are stupefied by foul air, and are listless and dull. This proc

• Dr. August Smith gives a good rule for ascertaining the amount of carbonic t^
id in the air of a house:—

"Let ns keep oar rooms so that the air does not give a precipitate when a ten
and hif onnce bottleful Is shaken with half an ounce of clean lime-water"—a
sanitary rcgiUallon which can easily be carried out.

ess goes on from year to year, and the weakened and poisoned body at last
succumbs to disease, and a "mysterious Providence" is charged with sickness and
death. The voice of nature, as well as nature's God, cries aloud, "Do thyself
no harm'" Those who violate the God-given laws of life and health may expect
the penalty. Whatsoever we sow we shall inevitably reap. If we sow the seeds of
disease, we must reap sickness and death. To breathe the atmosphere of many
school houses, lecture rooms, and theaters, is to breathe the atmosphere of
death.

Teachers and Bad Air.—With the vile atmosphere of the school room constantly
pouring over the lining membranes of the nasal cavities, surging about the
linings of the throat and vocal organs, driving down the bronchial tubes, and
deluging the lungs, what wonder the teacher first suffers from vitiated blood,
then from clogged membranes, and lastly from catarrh, bronchitis, dyspepsia,
and perhaps pulmonary consumption! It is next to impossible that the more
nervous constitutions should not succumb.

Foul Air in Churches.—We sit in our churches, from which the air and light of
heaven have been excluded six days out of seven, and, though ventilated as well
as heated for the seventh, we be'Tail our listlessness and want of interest in
the life-giving Gospel, and we charge it either to the preacher or to our own
depravity, when the fact is, n j temporary ventilation can take from the
carbonic-impregnated crypts and walls the depravity which has there fixed its
abode. The foul air left by the congregation on Sunday is often shut up during
the week and heated for the next Lord's day, when the people assemble, to be
re-breathed as polluted atmosphere.

How to Remove the "Foul Air" Evil from Churches.—The best time to change the
air in the churches is immediately after the congregation has departed. When
the services for the day are concluded, and while the audience room is still
warm, if the windows and doors are left open for a short time the cooler air o^
out-doors will rapidly displace that which has been breathed over and over
again by the throng of worshipers. A better arrangement would be to so provide
for ventilation in the structure of the ohurch that the foul air shall be
constantly passing out and fresh air shall be constantly supplied; but in the
absence of such an arrangement the sexton or janitor should, in the way here
suggested, thoroughly ventilate the church eHifice after each service. If the
intervals between the services are long, it may be well, also, to rechange the
air a short time before the succeeding service.

Bad Air vs. Religion.—An old number of the Educational Monthly makes some
suggestive hints under this caption, which we quoie: "Many a farmer and
housekeeper wonders why it is that they must needs take a nap every Sunday in
sermon-time. When the parson gets comfortably into the second Dr third head of
his discourse, and his congregation have settled into the easiest position to
listen, gentle sleep begins to steal over their faculties, and the good man is
surprised at finding his argument less cogent than it seemed when prepared in
the solitude of his study. At home the busy matron never thinks of napping at
eleven o'clock in the morning, and the man of business would consider his
sanity or common sense sadly called in question should a friend propose a
half-hour's nap at that hour of the day. Nevertheless, they both sleep like
kittens in their pews, and logic, rhetoric, eloquence, are alike wasted in the
vain attempt to rouse their sluggish souls. The question of the poet, so often
sung in our assemblies,

u * My drowsy powers, why sleep ye so?'

is exactly in point, and we propose as an answer, 'Because we are all breathing
carbonic acid gas—deadly poison; because the sexton did not let the foul air of
last Sunday's congregation out of the doors and windows, and the fresh, pure
air of heaven in.'

"Look round at the audience; that feverish flush on the face isn't heat, it is
poison. The lady nodding over there, her nose and cheeks like a scarlet rose,
is not too warm, for the thermometer doesn't stand over 70 degrees; she is
partially suffocated; what she wants is fresh air. That hard-working mechanic
or farmer doesn't sleep because he watched with a sick child last night, but
simply for want of oxygen to keep the flame of intellectual and physical
activity brightly burning.

"Nobody can rise on wings of faith in a poisonous atmosphere. Oxygen and
religion cannot be separated in this unrighteous manuer. We cannot live in
conformity to spiritual laws while in open violation of the physical.

"Is your sexton a man of intelligence sufficient to understand the necessity
and reason of ample ventilation? Does he know that every human being vitiates,
at the least estimate, four cubic feet of air every minute? Linger when the
congregation leaves, and see if he shuts every door and window tight to keep in
all the heat till evening service. Then see how thin the lamps burn in the
vitiated air; how hard the minister tries to raise himself and his listeners to
the height of some great argument, and how stupid tbey are—nothing but bad air.

"Now for the remedy, which costs labor and money both, for ventilation is a
question of dollars and cents. Saturday the sexton should be instructed to open
all the doors and windows; to let out all the dead and foul air, and let in
such as is fresh. It takes no more coal on Sunday morning to heat the church to
70 degrees because of this purification. Sunday noon let the openings of the
church be again thrown wide—warmth and bad air will alike disappear, and though
extra coal may be required to raise the temperature, the minister will preach
so much better in consequence, and the hearers will listen with such increased
relish to the sacred word, that the loss of the pocket will be infinitely
compensated by the gain of the soul."

Night Air Healthy.—Many are afraid of night air. Florence Nighingale replies to
this objection by asking, "What can we breathe at night except night air?" Her
rule is to keep the air within as pure as that without the house. Don't be
afraid to sleep by an open window. It is a common fallacy that cold air is
necessarily pure, and that apartments need less ventilation in ▼iuter than in
summer. Coolness does not always indicate freshness, and disagreeable warmth
does not indicate chemical impurity. Draughts are pernicious in tueir effects,
and must be avoided. In sleeping in an unavoidable draught, turn the face to
meet it.

Water as a Purifier.—A pan of water standing in an inhabited room becomes
utterly filthy and unfit for drink in a few hours. This depends on the fact
that the water has the faculty of condensing, and thereby absorbing, all the
gases, which it does without increasing its own bulk. The colder the water is,
the greater its capacity to contain these gases. The "breathed" atmosphere of
the room is, therefore, improved by the water, if often changed, and proves a
good purifier.

Sea Air.—Sea air, as a rule, is beneficial to health. This is shown by the fact
that the average life among seamen is larger than among those of most vocations
on land. The occupations of the former are such that, were it not for the
healthfulness of the sea air, their lives would probably be shorter than those
of the latter. The sea air is appetizing, and bracing to the general system.

Air at the Seaside.—Physicians who have traveled widely and investigated the
subject thoroughly arrive at the conclusion that the healthfulness of seaside
resorts is owing more to the fact that those who go to such places are in the
habit of spending much time in the open air, than to any special property the
localities may possess. In short, if in all sections the people were in the
habit of being in the open air, their general health would be greatlj improved.

Are Winds Healthful ?—Stagnation in the air or water is always hai mful. The
wind expels the stagnant air, and introduces fresh. Railway trains or street
cars passing rapidly and frequently by a dwelling stir up the atmosphere, and
in this respect render important service. It often occurs that in localities
where fevers prevail those persons who reside close to a railway escape the
disease. The writer knew a case in an eastern town where nearly every household
suffered except those by the track of frequently passing cars.

The prevailing direction of the wind each month of the year is as follows: In
January, north-westerly; in February, north-westerly; in March, north

vt esterly; in April, northerly; in May, southerly; in June, south-wc 'jerly;
in July, westerly; in August, south-westerly, (easterly as often;) in
September, easterly; in October, south-westerly; in November, northerly; in
December, north-westerly.

Dampness of the Air and Health.—Dry air as a rule is healthiei than damp or
humid air. Hence if rains continue long, or if fogs prevail for several days,
the system suffers by the increased saturation. While oxygen and nitrogen and
pure air itself are almost entirely diathermous, the absorptive power of
moisture is very great. It seems that a molecule of aqueous vapor has sixteen
thousand times the absorptive power of an atom of ox»gen or of nitrogen; and
carbonic acid, marsh gas, ammonia, etc., are also extremely absorptive. Now,
when the sun shmes on an atmosphere that is ury, his rays pass through it in
all their power, but when the air is damp the rays are much weakened before
they reach the earth. On the other hand, vhen the air is dry, the heat from the
earth radiates into space much faste than when it is moist. The importance of
these facts from a medical stand-point is very great. All the agents just
mentioned as powerful absorbents of heat are found in greatest abundance near
the earth; consequently they absorb a large amount of the heat radiated from
the earth, which, it must be borne in mind, is the chief source of the heat
diffused in the atmosphere. Usually over teu per cent, of the heat from this
source is absorbed within ten feet of the ground.

On the northern Atlantic coast the south and east winds are, as a rule, moist
winds; next come the northerly; next the south-west; next the west; next the
north: and last the north-west. The sudden veering of a wind from a southerly
to a northerly wind is usually attended with a precipitation of moisture; and
the same is true of a sudden change of a northerly to an easterly.

Sea and Mountain Air Compared.—An able Italian physician, Dr. C. Alberto, in a
recent work says: "The marine air produces the same benefit as that of the
mountain, but each has a different modus efficiendi; the former acts more
forcibly and energetically on the constitution which retains some robustness
and internal resources to profit by it, while the second acts more gently, with
slower efficacy, being thereby more suitable to the weaker, and less excitable
organizations. From this important distinction, the conscientious physician who
takes the safety of his patient much to heart, ought to be able to discriminate
whether the alpine or the marine atmosphere in the better suited to the case he
has before him." «

Mutual Diffusion of Air.—The physical law known as that of "mutual diffusion "
plays an important part in all questions relating to the mixture of different
gases, such as of oxygen, nitrogen, and carbonc acid, which make up out
atmosphere. By virtue of this law it occurs that two gases when brought
together, no matter what their relative weights, become thoroughly mixed
together, in proportions which are stated as being inversely as the square
roots of their densities.

Carbonic acid is a gas so heavy that it may be decanted from one vessel into
another; and hydrogen is so light that a balloon filled with it ascends, as we
all know, into the air. Yet if a vessel filled with the latter be inverted over
one containing the former, and a piece of membrane be placed between the mouths
of the two, it will be found that, after a while, some of the carbonic acid has
ascended into the upper vessel, and the hydrogen has descended in the lower
one, and mingled with the carbonic acid. A mixture will be thus formed in both
vessels.

It is the same in nature. Animals are perpetually exhaling carbonic acid into
the atmosphere, and were it not for this wonderful property of " diffusion" a
stratum of foul air would lie over the earth, and would possibly extinguish
animal existence. The great value of connecting the air of our rooms with the
free and purer air outside is, therefore, apparent.

Our Great Enemies, the Marshes.—M. Lombard, of Geneva, shows, from a great
collection of statistical documents, that winter and spring are the seasons of
greatest mortality in the north and center of Europe. In the south, on the
contrary, summer and autumn are the most destructive seasons; but marsh miasm
where it exists, transforms the period and character of the mortality. The same
influence, as M. Simmoneau has shown, is the great obstruction to the
acclimatization of Europeans in hot climates. It is to the perfect drainage of
the soil that our efforts must be directed in both cases.

DISINFECTANTS-HOW TO PREPARE AND USE THEM.

Fresh Air and Sunlight.—First and always let in fresh air and sunlight, that
they may purify every place they can reach. Open and dry all cellars and
vaults, and keep the grounds and surfaces about dwellings as dry and clean as
possible. Sedulously cultivate habits of the strictest cleanliness in person,
clothing and habitation, indoor and out; as well in the cellar as in the
parlor; as well in the darkest closet as in the hall; not neglecting a corner
or a crevice in the whole building, keeping an eye to one point always, that
wherever there is dampness there is disease, and that moral purity and filth in
any form are absolutely incompatible.

Water.—We have already seen the value of water as an absorbent and
disinfectant. Dishes of water may be placed in any place required. Care should
be used to remove the water frequently. Cold water is better than warm for this
purpose. A pailful of water in a freshly-painted room will often remove the
sickening odor of the paint. Try it.

Charcoal.—Powdered charcoal is one of the best of disinfectants. It is very
prompt in absorbing affluvia and gaseous bodies, as well as rendering harmless
and even useful those bodies which are easily changed. Charcoal powder has long
been used as a filter for putrid water. When the impurities are absorbed they
come in contact with condensed oxygen gas, which exists In the pores of all
charcoal which has been exposed to the air, and in this way become oxidized and
destroyed. A layer of pulverized charcoal will prevent the escape of all
offensive odor from any decomposing substance.

Charcoal and Lime.—These may be mixed with notable advantage in many cases.
This compound is known in the shops as " Calx powder." It is useful in
absorbing putrid gases. Use it dry and fresh.

Clay.—For many purposes dry clay is not only the cheapest but the best
deodorant. It destroys or absorbs the foul odors, instead of partially
overcoming them by substituting chlorine or coal tar in their place. The
presence of clay has a great influence upon the health of communities. There
are oftener cases of typhoid fever and dysentery on a sandy or alluvial soil
than on a clay soil. This is probably owing to the fact that the water used is
made pure by filtering through the clay soil, while in passing through sandy
soil it retains to some extent its impurities, or adds to them. *

Quicklime and Gypsum.—Quicklime and gypsum or land-plaster are good absorbents,
and may be used advantageously in damp places, cellars, gutters, etc. They
should not, however, be used in drains, catch-basins, sewers, soil-pipes, etc.;
nor where they are liable to be washed into such places, lest they, by
decomposing soap-water, form lime-soap, and obstruct the passages.

Sifted Ashes are very useful in country water-closets, where they may be
scattered as often as any odor is perceptible.

Surface Soil.—Any surface soil or mold pulverized forms a convenient and
effective absorbent and deodorizer for use in out-houses. The fresh dug earth
is the best. It should be used in the same manner as above noted in the case of
clay.

Fresh Stone-lime.—To absorb moisture and putrid fluids use fresh stone-lime
finely broken; sprinkle it on the place to be dried, and ji 'lamp rooms place a
number of plates or pans filled with the lime powder.

Copperas.—Common copperas, called sulphate of iron, in its crude state

* There is another advantage in the country in us'ng clay for privies. The
removal of the contents is no longer a disgusting; operation, while the farmer
or gardener has a valuable supply of fertilizing matei'ial for hU grounds.

can be purchased for five cents a pound; this, dissolved in two gallons of
water, and thrown over ill-smelling places, is one of the cheapest, simplest,
and most convenient deodorizers, and is applicable to privies, sinks, gutters,
and heaps of offal.

Chloride of Lime.—To give off chlorine, to absorb putrid effluvia, and to stop
putrefaction, use chloride of lime; and if in cellars or close rooms the
chlorine gas is wanted, pour strong vinegar or diluted sulphuric acid upon
plates of chloride of lime occasionally, and add more of the chloride. We have
known a large manufactory filled with deadly sewage air cleansed in a single
half hour by throwing a half bushel of chloride of lime into the vaults from
which the poisonous gas emanated. Chloride of lime is often deleterious in
close dwellings because of the chlorine evolved. It may be used safely in the
open atmosphere.

Salt and Lime Paste.—A cheap and available disinfectant and deodorizer is made
by dissolving a bushel of salt in a barrel of water; then adding enough
unslacked, that is, fresh lime, which has never been exposed to dampness, to
make the whole into a thin paste, to be applied as often as necessary to all
places yielding offensive smells, such as gutters, sinks, cesspools, etc. This
is home-made chloride of lime.

Carbolic Acid.—A weak solution of carbolic acid may be used in saucers, or
shallow earthen dishes; or a cloth saturated with it may be hung in the room
where the offensive odor is suspected. In large cities the streets in the most
densely populated wards have been watered on alternate days with a weak
solution of carbolic acid with excellent results. There is no doubt that this
excellent antiseptic and disinfectant has been very beneficial. The inhabitants
of those streets have often expressed satisfaction at the freshness and removal
of disagreeable smells which this acid produces, and they regard it as an
addition to their comfort.

Salt and Nitrate of Lead.—Dissolve half a dram of nitrate of lead in a pint of
bojling water, and two drams of common salt in a pail of water; then mix the
two solutions and allow the sediment to settle. A cloth dipped m the liquid and
huug up in the apartment is all that is required to purify the most fetid
atmosphere. It is recommended for its cheapness, a pound of the materials
costing about twenty-five cents. One pound of nitrate of lead, dissolved in a
pailful of water, is excellent for sinks, sink-drains and vaults.

"Disinfecting Mixture."—Common salt, three ounces; black manganese, oil of
vitriol, of each one ounce; water, two ounces. Carry this mixture in a cup
through the apartments of the sick.

General Disinfecting Compound.—For general disinfection the following

compound is available and valuable, and far better than most of the patented
articles offered: Sulphate of iron, (copperas,) forty pounds; sulphate of lime,
(gypsum or plaster,) fifty pounds; sulphate of zinc, (white vitriol,) seven
pounds; powdered charcoal, two pounds. Mix well and scatter dry, or wet rt in
small quantities and make into balls ready for use. Where a liquid is needed,
stir in water in the proportion of a pound of the powder or ball to a gallon of
water, and sprinkle where needed.

Coffee as a Disinfectant.—Experiments with roasted coffee prove it to be a
powerful means of rendering harmless and destroying animal and vegetable
effluvia. A room in which meat in an advanced state of decomposition has been
kept can be instantly deprived of all smell by simply carrying through it a
coffee roaster containing'a pound of newly-roasted coffee. The best mode of
using the coffee is to dry the raw bean, pound it in a mortar; and then roast
the powder on a moderately heated iron plate, until it becomes a dark brown
color. Then sprinkle it in sinks and cesspools, or expose it on a plate in the
room to be purified.

Sunflowers as Disinfectants.—Experiments in France and Holland have shown that
sunflowers, when planted on an extensive scale, will neutralize the pernicious
effects of exhalations from marshes. This plan has been tried with great
success in the fenny districts near Kochefort, France; and the authorities of
Holland assert that intermittent fever has wholly disappeared from districts
where the sunflowers have been planted. It is not yet determined what effect
the flower produces on the atmosphere—whether it generates oxygen, like other
plants of rapid growth, or whether, like the coniferoe, it emits ozone, and
thus destroys the organic germs of miasms that produce fever.

Boiling for Infected Clothing.—When foul clothing or infected things can be
boiled, or have a boiling heat steadily applied and kept up for an hour, this
is one of the simplest and best modes of disinfection. But until such high heat
is actually applied to the infected things, some one of the disinfecting
solutions must be used. A common steam tub, in a laundry or elsewhere, with a
tight cover, is a good disinfecting vat. The clothing must be thrown into the
water at boiling heat, and that temperature should be kept up for an hour.

Soaking for Foul Clothing.—Soiled, impure garments may be put to soak iu a half
pound of sulphate of zinc (white vitriol) to three gallons of water. It will
not stain or discolor most fabrics. One ounce of chloride of lead dissolved in
a pint of hot water, and then a pailful of water added, into which a handful of
common salt has been thrown, serves a similar purpose; also a half ounce of
permanganate of potash to a gallon of water.

Boiling after Disinfection.—Permanganate of potassa may be used in disinfecting
clothing and towels from cholera and fever patients during the

night, or when such articles cannot be instantly boiled. Throw the soiled
articles immediately into a tub of water, in which there has been dissolved an
ounce of the permanganate salt to every three gallons of water. Boil ti e
clothing as soon as it is removed from this colored solution.

Carbolic Acid for Clothing.—Carbolic acid, when used to disinfect clothing,
should be of good quality, thoroughly mixed with its own quantity of strong
vinegar, and next be dissolved in two hundred times its own quantity of water
before the clothing is immersed in it. This mixture with vinegar insures such
complete solution of the carbolic acid that the clothing will not be "burned"
by undissolved drops of acid when disinfected in the carbolic water. This weak
solution—1 part to 200—will not injure common clothing. But to destroy clothing
as well as infection, instantly, use the acid diluted only 10 to 30 times its
quantity of water. The disinfecting and antiseptic power of good carbolic acid
is so great that 1 part to 50 or 100 parts of water is sufficient for ordinary
purposes. For drains, sewers, foul heaps, stables, and privies, the cheap "dead
oil" of coal tar, or the crude carbolic acid, answers every purpose when freely
applied. Coal tar itself is available as a disinfectant to paint upon the walls
of stables, privy vaults, and drains. By mixing with sawdust or dry lime, coal
or crude acid may be used on foul grounds or heaps of refuse.

How to Fumigate Rooms To fumigate and cleanse the air of an

apartment, there is no more simple way than to heat a common iron shovel quite
hot, and pour vinegar slowly upon it. The steam arising from this process is
pungent, and of a disinfectant character. Open windows and doors at the same
time.

Another way is to fumigate with sulphurous acid, thus: Arrange to vacate the
room for twelve hours. Close every window and aperture, and, upon an iron
pipkin or kettle with legs, burn a few ounces of sulphur. Instantly after
kindling it, every person must withdraw from the place, and the room m ust
remain closed for the succeeding eight hours.

If any other kind of fumigation is resorted to, as that by chlorine, bromine,
or nitrous acid, a sanitary officer or chemist should superintend the process.
Fumigation should be resorted to in dwelling-houses only by official orders or
permission, as the disinfecting gases are very poisonous.

To Disinfect Water-closets.—To disinfect a water-closet or a quantity of earth
that is contaminated by cholera excrement, or liable to be infected, use
solution of carbolic acid and copperas, mixed, as follows: To every cubic foot
of soil or filth give from one to three pints of the strong solution. To every
privy and water-closet allow at the rate of one pint, to be poured in daily at
evening, for every person on the premises. This practice should be kept up
while cholera is in the country. This method of systematic dis' infection would
be useful in every household; but when cholera is present in any city or
country, such thorough application of this means of protection cannot be safely
neglected in any city or place to which persons may come from towns where
cholera is epidemic. The best sanitary chemists advise that the estimated
quantity of these privy and sewer disinfectants required for each person daily,
in the presence of cholera, should be half an ounce sulphate of iron, and half
a dram or half a teaspoonful of carbolic acid.

To Disinfect Dead Bodies.—All chances of infection will be prevented and all
effluvia destroyed from dead bodies by wrapping them in sheets saturated with a
solution of carbolate of camphor.

Comparative Permanent Value of Different Disinfectants Owing to

its cheapness, the impure sulphate of iron, ordinarily known as copperas,
{green vitriol,) is the most available chemical disinfectant for sewage,
outhouses, etc. The common mistake is in not using it in sufficient quantity.
Its value does not rest, it must be remembered, upon theory only, but also upon
experiment. In February, 1873, Albert Eckstein published an account of his
attempts to disinfect an outhouse which was used daily by one hundred persons,
and the results are so interesting that they are here transcribed:—

1. Two pounds of sulphate of iron in solution. After from two to three hours
all bad smell had disappeared, but in twelve hours all the influence of the
disinfectant was lost.

2. Sulphate of copper, (blue vitriol,) in solution, the same.

3. Two pounds of sulphate of iron in crystals; its effect lasted two days.

4. Sulphate of copper, the same.

5. Sulphurous acid in solution rapidly lost its effect, and was exceedingly
irritating to the respiratory organs.

6. Two pounds of impure carbolic acid filled the house for two days with such a
disagreeable smell, that it was impossible to tell whether the original odor
was destroyed or covered up.

1. Two pounds of sulphate of iron in a parchment sack exerted a disinfecting
influence for full three days, and when the parchment sack was drawn up it
contained only some dirty, odorless fluid.

8. Two pounds of the best chloride of calcium in the parchment sack disinfected
the outhouse for at least nine days.

In conclusion, to sum up the points'

1. It is useless to attempt to permanently disinfect the atmosphere, and,
therefore, great care should be exercised to destroy, as far as possible, the
poison-germs so soon as they leave the body.

2. Copperas is the most available disinfectant for ordinary purposes; in
certain cases, (chiefly for water-closets,) chloride of calcium is very good.

8. Carbolic acid, on account of its odor, is very disagreeable; further, it is
not so efficient as some other substances. For the purpose of killing
diseasegerms, and for the purifying of cholera discharges, copperas in solution
or powder is to be preferred.

Caution in Removing Foul Air from Wells.—It is well known that many accidents
occur to persons going down into wells to clean them, owing to the noxious gas
in such places. To remove the gas before descent is made in any well, a
quantity of burned but unslaked lime should be thrown down. This, when it comes
in contact with whatever water is below, sets free a great quantity of heat in
the water and lime, which rushes upward, carrying all the deleterious gas with
it, after which the descent may be made with perfect safety. The lime also
absorbs carbonic acid in the well. Always lower a light before descending; if
it is extinguished there is still danger of suffocation.

Precautions in Visiting Infected Rooms.—When the great philanthropist Howard
was asked what precautions he used to preserve himself from infection in the
prisons, hospitals, and dungeons which he visited, he responded with his pen as
follows:—

"I here answer once for all that, next to the free goodness and mercy of the
Author of my being, temperance and cleanliness are my preservatives.

"Trusting in Divine Providence, and believing myself in the way of duty, I
visit the most noxious cells, and while thus employed / fear no evil.

"I never enter a hospital or prison before breakfast; and

"In an offensive room I seldom draw my breath deeply."

No better precautions than these need be given. The answer of Howard should be
indelibly impressed on every memory.

Heat and Steam.—Heat has long been known as among the most efficient of
disinfectants. And the use of steam, as a facile means of communicating it,
against yellow fever especially, was effectually demonstrated at long ago as
1848. Since that time, in addition to the common use of stean for the
disinfection of vessels, it has been extensively used for the disinfection of
personal clothing and bedding, and to this end steam disinfecting chambers,
abroad, at least, have long since ceased to be a novelty. The first one
constructed in this country was in connection with the New York Quarantine
hospitals, where it continues to be a prominent feature.

A New Disinfectant.—Dr. John Day, of Geelong, Australia, recommends for use in
civil and military hospitals, and also for the purpose of destroying the poison
germs of small-pox, scarlet fever, and other infecticus diseases, a
disinfectant, ingeniously composed of one part of rectified oil of turpentine
and seven parts of benzine, with the addition of five drops of oil of verbena
to each ounce. Its purifying and disinfecting properties are due to the power
which is possessed by each of its ingredients of absorbing atmospheric oxygen,
and converting it into peroxide, of hydrogen—a highly-active oxidizing agent,
and very similar in its nature to ozone. Articles of clothing, furniture, wall
paper, carpeting, books, newspapers, letters, etc., may be perfectly saturated
with it without receiving the slightest injury; and when it has been once
freely applied to any rough or porous surface, its action will be persistent
for an almost indefinite period. This may, at any time, be readily shown by
pouring a few drops of a solution of iodide of potassium over the material
which has been disinfected, when the peroxide of hydrogen, which is being
continually generated within it, will quickly liberate the iodine from its
combination with the potassium, and give rise to dark brown stains.*

SUNLIGHT AND HEALTH.

Power of Sunlight.—Sunlight is one of the most powerful forces in nature,
kindling the whole vegetable world into being, and making animal life possible
by its extraordinary chemical agency.

Seclusion from Sunshine.—Seclusion from sunshine is one of the great
misfortunes of our civilized life. The same cause which makes the potato vines
white and sickly when grown in dark cellars, operates to produce the pale,
sickly girls that are reared in our parlors. Expose either to the rays of the
sun, and they begin to show color, health, and strength.

Philosophy of the Influence of Sunlight.—Recent discoveries seem to prove that
there is conveyed to animals, by the direct action of the sun's rays, a subtle
current of iron. It does not exist in light, or but very slightly, if at all,
but it is a part of the sun's rays. Therefore, we must enjoy these rays if we
would feel their full effect. This iron it is which is supposed to give color
to plants and animals, and to impart strength and beauty. With strength and
beauty come health and good spirits, and despondency and fear are banished.

Sunlight and Plants.—It is well known that no valuable plant can grow well
without being visited by the direct rays of the sun; no plant can bear feed, no
fruit can ripen without it. Any vine grown in the dark is white and
utrengthless. Grass, grain, and flowers do not thrive under the shadow of a
tree.

Sunlight and Domestic Animals.—It is well known that no valuable domestic
animals can thrive without being visited often by the sunshine. The fish of the
Mammoth Cave are white; their eyes are not opened, Ijecause they

* British Medical Journal.

have never felt the glorious light; they are weak and imperfect, a kind of
idiots, if fish are liable to that wretchedness.

Swine which are shut under the farmers' barns, and where every thing is
favorable except the lack of sunshine, do not thrive as well as those which
have the ordinary run in the open air.

Cows and horses stalled continuously in dark stables become feeble and
unhealthy, and become useless in less than half the time of those whici run in
the open air, or whose stalls permit them to enjoy the influence of the
sunlight. The same is true of all other domestic animals.

'Dr. Ellsworth, of Hartford, says: "Take a rabbit and shut him from the
sunlight, and he will die of consumption in a few weeks. The tubercles will be
just as perfectly formed in his lungs as in the human species, and the symptoms
in every respect will be the same."

Sunlight and Human Life.—Sir James Wylie says that, "The cases of disease on
the dark side of an extensive barrack at St. Petersburgh, have been uniformly,
for many years, in the proportion of three to one to those on the side exposed
to strong light."

Dr. Forbes Winslow in his volume entitled "Light, its Influence on Life and
Health," uses the following language: "It may be enunciated as an indisputable
fact, that all who live and pursue their calling in situations where the
minimum of light is permitted to penetrate, suffer seriously in bodily and
mental health. The total exclusion of the sunbeam induces the severer forms of
chlorosis, green sickness, and other anaemic conditions depending upon an
impoverished and disordered state of the blood. Under these circumstances the
face assumes a death-like paleness, the membranes of the eyes become bloodless,
and the skin shrunken and turned into a white, greasy, waxy color; also
emaciation, muscular debility and degeneration, dropsical effusion, softening
of the bones, general nervous excitability, morbid irritability of the heart,
loss of appetite, tendency to syncope and hemorrhages, consumption, physical
deformity, stunted growth, mental impairment, and premature old age. The
offspring of those so unhappily trained are often deformed, weak, and puny, and
are disposed to scrofulous affections."

Another Testimony.—" It is a well-established fact that, as the effect of
isolation from the stimulus of light, the fibrine, albumen, and red bloodcells
become diminished in quantity, and the serum or watery portion of the vital
fluid augmented in volume, thus inducing a disease known to physicians and
pathologists by the name of lukcemia, an affection in which white instead of
red blood-cells are developed. This exclusion from the sun produces the sickly,
flabby, pale, ansemaic condition of the face or exsanguined, ghost-like forms
so often seen among those not exposed to air and light. The absence of these
elements of health deteriorates by materially altering the physical

composition of the blood, thus seriously prostrating the vital strength,
enfeebling tho nervous energy, and ultimately inducing organic changes in the
structure of the heart, brain, and muscular tissue."—Dr. Forbes Winslow.

Sunlight and Miners.—The lack of pure light and pure air in mines tells
seriously upon the health ot miners. "Foureault affirms that where life is
prolonged to the average term, the evil effects of the want of light are seen
in the stunted forms and general deterioration of the human race. It appears
that the inhabitants of the arrondissement of Chimay, in Belgium, three
thousand in number, are engaged partly as coal miners, and partly as field
laborers. The latter are robust, and readily supply their proper num x r of
recruits to the army; while among the miners it is in most years impossible to
find a man who is not ineligible from bodily deformity or arrest of physical
development."—Forbes Winslow's Influence of Light.

Paralysis Cured by Sunshine.—One of the ablest lawyers in our country, writes a
physician, a victim of long and hard brain labor, came to me a year ago
suffering from partial paralysis. The right leg and hip were reduced in size,
with constant pain in the loins. He was obliged, in coming upstairs, to lift up
the left foot first, dragging the right foot after it. Pale, feeble, miserable,
he told me he had been failing for several years, and closed with "My work is
done. At sixty I find myself worn out." I directed him to lie down under a
large window, and allow the sun to shine on every part of his body; at first
ten minutes a day, increasing the time until he could expose himself to the
direct rays of the sun for a full hour. His habits were not essentially altered
in any other particular. In six months he came running upstairs like a vigorous
man of forty, and declared, with sparkling eyes, "I have twenty years more of
work in me."

Neuralgic, Rheumatic, and Hypochondriac Cures by Sunshine— Writes the same
physician quoted above: "I have assisted many dyspeptic, neuralgic, rheumatic,
and hypochondriacal people into health by the sun cure. I have so many facts
illustrating the wonderful power of the sun's direct rays in curing certain
classes of invalids, that I have seriously thought of publishing a work to be
denominated the 'Sun Cure.'"

Florence Nightingale on Sunlight.—" Who has not observed tfte purifying effect
of light," says Florence Nightingale, "and especially of direct sunlight upon
the air of a room? Go into a sick room where the shutters are always shut, (in
a sick room or bed-chamber there should nev ;r be shutters shut,) and, though
the room has never been polluted by the bieathing of human beings, you will
observe a close, musty smell of corrupt air, t. unpurified by the effect of the
sun's rays. The mustiness of dark rooms and corners, indeed, is proverbial. The
cheerfulness of a room, tho usefulness of light in treating disease, is
all-important. 'Where there is sun there is thought.' All physiology goes to
confirm this. "Where is the shady iside of deep valleys, there is cretinism.
Where are cellars and the unsunned sides of narrow streets, there is the
degeneracy and weakliness of the human race, mind and body equally
degenerating. Put the pale, withering plant and human being into the sun, and
if not too far gone, each will recover health and spirit."—Notes On Nursing.

Sunlight Shut Out by Parasols.—Many persons keep themselves pale and sickly by
means of parasols, umbrellas, shaded rooms, and indoor life generally. Parasols
should be dispensed with excepting in the hottest seasons. Sailors who are ever
in the pure air and sunlight, and children who play much out of doors,
generally present a ruddy, healthy appearance. The following severe cut on our
American house-keepers, from an editorial of a Chicago daily, is well merited:
"In this country there seems to be an implacable feud between people and the
sun—the one striving vigorously and even fiercely to get into the houses, and
the other striving just as fiercely and vigorously to keep him out. The average
American house-keeper does not think she has fulfilled her whole duty until she
has made the rounds of the whole household, shut all the doors, closed all the
shutters, and drawn all the curtains on the east and south sides of the house.
This is the morning's job. In the afternoon she makes the same grand round on
the west side of the house. She is not quite happy and contented until the sun
has gone down and darkness sets in. She is substantially aided in her raid
against the sunlight by the heaviest of shades, curtains, and lambrequins. Thus
the fight goes on day by day, and season by season. In summer she shuts out the
sun because it is too hot. In winter she shuts it out because it will spoil her
carpets. In spring and fall she has other reasons. She has reasons for all
seasons. Thus she keeps the house in perpetual shade, in which the children
grow up sickly, dwarfed, full of aches and pains, and finally have to be sent
off into the country post-haste so that they may get into that very sunlight
which they have been denied at home, and in which the country children run and
are glorified."

The Sunlight and Blinds.—" I wish God had never permitted man to invent'green
blinds,'" said a thoughtful and brilliant woman. Why did she say it? Because
she saw, wherever she went over our fair md sunshiny land, that green blinds
were closely shut upon our comfortable houses, excluding the sun's light, which
we may be sure God sends down for some blessed purpose. That blessed purpose is
to promote growth, to give strength, to impart color, to gild with beauty, to
inspire good thoughts, and to insure light hearts and cheerful faces.

Sunlight and Carpets—" Do not be afraid of a little sunshine, either," wrote
another excellent authority on healthful housekeeping. "It may increase your
color, but a nut-like brownness is more becoming to a woman's face than the
deathly whiteness of the lily. Sunshine is quite as good in its way as fresh
air, and it should come into every room in the house. Does it fade the carpet?
Then spread down a rug or a piece of drugget. A better way is to select colors
that will not run away from the sunshine. For bedrooms Canton matting is good.
It will not fade; it is easily swept; it will not hold dust readily, nor
contract bad smells; it can be taken .up and cleaned, and the floor washed
every month if desired. I like painted floors, too, and, better still, I like
the hard wood inlaid floors. Rugs may be placed where wanted to stand upon. It
is said that the French very seldom carpet a whole house, and laugh at the idea
as a New World notion. True, "French" is out of fashion now, but I take a good
thing wherever I find it, put my own common sense to it, which I am obliged to
do in order to make it serve me harmoniously, and then make the most of it."

"The Sun Brings Flies.'*—So says many a housekeeper. It has been well answered,
"Well, flies are good scavengers; but while it is true that the tidy
housekeeper does not need their services, it would be well to take some more
sensible means to get rid of them than to make for ourselves an atmosphere that
flies will not live in. It is better to kill them off with flytraps or poison,
better still to keep them out with screened doors and windows. When we are wise
enough we shall not always be obliged to permit the conditions which produce
flies. If we live near neglected stables, etc., we must take the consequences.
However, we are improving. It is not so bad now as it was when the stable was
under the same roof with the house. So we will make it a rule to let the
sunshine into every room of the house some part of every day."

Sunlight and Sleep.—Sleepless people—and they are many in America— should court
the sun. The very worst soporific is laudanum, and the very best sunshine.
Therefore, it is very plain that poor sleepers should pass many hours in the
day in sunshine, and as few as possible in the shade.

Sunlight and "Cars."—Our street-car and railway conductors are too often most
careful to shut out the sun from their vehicles, even in weather when it would
be especially delightful and animating to have its rays. In fact, this glorious
orb of heaven is frequently treated as if it was man's deadliest enemy, instead
of being the dispenser of power and beauty in all directions, as it really is.

Give the Children Sunshine.—Children need sunshine quite as much as flowers do.
Half an hour is not enough. Several hours are required. The most beautiful
flowers that ever studded a meadow could not be made half so beautiful without
days and days of the glad light that streams through space. Light for children.
Sunshine for the little elves that gladden this otherwise gloomy earth. Deal it
out in generous fullness to them. Let the nursery be in the sunshine. Better
plant roses on the dark side oi an iceberg than rear babies and children in
rooms and alleys stinted of the light that makes life.

"Yes, mothers," writes an intelligent friend from the country, "give your
children the sunshine. You could not give them a gift which would cost you
.ess, nor yet one qualified to profit them more. It will mak? them what we in
the country call tough and hardy. They require sunshine just as much as plants
do. All scientific persons are now united in this decision. The world is full
of delicate and weakly women, and, my word for it, more of the cause lies in an
effort on our part to make 'fair' ladies of our daughters than in any thing
else."

Sunlight in the School-Room.—Dr. Andrew Winter, in the Pall Mall Gazette, 
London, says: "When the St. Martin National School, leading out of
Endell-street was built some years ago, we noticed with pleasure that a
playground was built at the top of the school, where light and air was
plentiful. The necessity of light for young children is not half appreciated.
Many of the affections of children, and nearly all the cadaverous looks of
those brought up in great cities, are ascribable to this deficiency of light
and air. When we see the glass-rooms of the photographers in every street, high
up on the top-most story, we grudge them in their application to a mere
personal vanity. Why should not our nurseries be constructed in the same
manner? If mothers knew the value of light to the skin in childhood, especially
to the children of a scrofulous tendency, we should have plenty of these
glass-house nurseries, where children may run about in a proper temperature,
free of much of that clothing which at present seals up the skin—that great
supplementary lung—to sunlight and oxygen."

The "Solaries" of the Ancients.—The ancients often had terraces, called
solaries, built on the tops of their houses, where they were in the habit of
taking their solar air baths. Pliny says that, for six hundred years Rome had
no physicians. Using such natural methods of retaining or gaining physical
power as vapor baths, manipulation, sunlight, exercise, etc., they became the
mightiest of nations. By this remark I throw out no slur against true and wise
physicians, who are a blessing to the community, but would call their attention
more to nature's finer methods rather than to the use of so many drugs,
blisters, moxas, bleedings, leechings, and other violent processes which so
weaken and destroy the beautiful temple of the human body.

Sunlight and Digestion—An Illustration.*—Very intimate relations exist between
the sun and digestion. Digestion and assimilation becomes weak and imperfect if
the man or animal is not daily exposed to the direct

[ocr errors]

rays of the sun. Mr. P., one of our merchants, came to see me about his
stomach. Dyspepsia was written all over his face, was shown in his movements,
and heard 'a his voice. The conversation between us was essentially as
follows:—

Mr. P. "Doctor, if you will excuse a street vulgarity, I am 'played out.' I
can't digest, I can't work, I have lost my courage, I feel I must stop." "Tell
me about your diet."

"If you will excuse me, I know that is all right. I have studied the subject,
and I know my food is all right." "How about your exercise?"

"I have a little gymnasium in my store, and exercise an hour or two every day.
I sometimes tire myself out with these exercises." "How about your sleep?"

"Why, Doctor, I go to bed with the chickens. At any rate I am always in bed by
nine o'clock, and I rise by six o'clock in the morning, take a bath, a plain
breakfast, and go to my counting-room. Once in the forenoon, and once in the
afternoon, I exercise in my gymnasium half an hour or so, but I am getting
worse all the time. Isn't it curious?" My wife thinks I must have a cancer in
the stomach. Nothing seems to help me. I live the most physiological life, but
my digestion grows worse and worse."

"About your counting-room; is that light? is it sunny?"

"No, that is one nuisance we have in our store. The store is every way
pleasant, only that the counting-room is so dark, we have to use gas nearly all
the time."

"That's it, Mr. P., that explains your cancer."

"Of course, you don't mean that; but I suppose it would be better if the
counting-room was sunny."

"Why, Mr. P., no plant or animal can digest in the dark. Try it. Plant a potato
in your cellar. Now watch it carefully. If there is a little light, that potato
will sprout and try to grow. But surround it with the best manure, water it, do
the best you can for it, only keep it in the dark, it cannot digest and grow.
See how slender and pale it is. Now open a window in another part of the
cellar, and notice how the poor hungry thing will stretch that way. Or give the
stalk a little twist, and see how it will lie down. It has no strength to raise
itself again. No matter how much of the best food and drink you give it, it
can't digest. The process of digestion, the great function of assimilation,
can't go on without the sunshine. Why, Sir, with your excellent habits, if your
counting-room were in a flood of sunlight, you would be better in a week, and
well in a month. Mr. P., did you ever go into the country late in the summer?
Of course you have been. Well, did you never notice, where grain is growing in
orchards, that the part under the trees is smaller than that outside and away
from the trees? The land is actually

richer there. For years the leaves have fallen and decayed, but notwithstanding
this, the wheat is only half size, and never fills well. Now, what is the
difficulty? The sun shines upon it more or less. Yea, that is true, but that
under the trees does not receive as much sunshine as that away from them. That
which is thus partly in the shade, can't digest so well. Why, Sir, if you will
move your counting-room upstairs, in front, and stand where the sun can have a
chance at you, even though it is only three or four hours a day, you will begin
to digest your beef better within three days. Have you ever noticed that the
only grapes that become perfectly ripe and sweet; that the only peaches that
take on those beautiful red cheeks, and offer that luscious sweetness, are
those that are on the outside, entirely uncovered by the leaves, and perfectly
exposed to the sun? God's laws are the same in the animal world. It is just as
true, the only girls with red cheeks and sweet breaths, the only girls who
become fully ripe and sweet, are those who baptize themselves freely in God's
glorious sunshine. Don't you see a good many pale girls in your store, girls
with a bloodless, half-baked sort of face, whose walking, whose voice, whose
whole expression, is devoid of spirit and force? Those girls are in the green
state. Look at their lips and cheeks; they are not half ripe. Send them out in
the country, let them throw away their parasols, put on their little jockey
hats, and live out in the sunshine three mouths, and I would give more for one
of them in any work requiring soul and spirit, than for a dozen of those pale
things that live in the shade. A pale woman! She makes a very good ghost, but
not much of a woman."

CARE OF THE EYES.

The eye is one of the most delicate and sensitive organs of the human body. It
is most closely connected with the brain, and with the general system of
civilization. It shares with the brain in all the various conditions of nervous
excitement or depression, labor or repose. It is affected by all the
obstructions and irregularities of the general circulation, and suffers,
therefore, from any injury or lack in the general health.

Strange Neglect of the Eyes. It is a remarkable fact that this organ is more
neglected than any other. "I have known," says a recent writer," * "fond and
doting mothers take their children of four and five years of age to have their
first teeth filled, instead of having them extracted, so that the jaw might not
suffer in its due development, and become in later years contracted, while the
eye, the most intellectual, the most apprehensive, and the most discriminating
of all our organs, receives not even a passing thought, much less an

* Harper's Mngallne, 1S79.

examination. It never seems to occur to the parents that the principal agent in
a child's education is the eye; that through it it gains not only its sense of
the methods and ways of existence of others, but even the means for the
maintainance of its own; nor does it occur to the parents for an instar.t that
many of the mental as well as bodily attributes of a growing child are
fashioned, even if they are not created, by the condition of the eye alone. A
child is put to school without the slightest inquiry on the part of 1 he
parent, and much less on the part of the teacher, whether it has the normal
amount of sight; whether it sees objects sharply and well defined or
indistinctly and distorted; whether it be near-sighted or far-sighted; whether
it sees with one or two eyes; or, finally, if it does see clearly and
distinctly, whether it is not using a quantity of nervous force sufficient
after a time not only to exhaust the energy of the visual organ, but of the
nervous system at large."

How the Eye is Kept Clean.—For us to be able to see objects clearly and
distinctly, it is necessary that the eye should be kept clean. For this purpose
it is furnished with a little gland, from which flows a watery fluid, (tears,)
which is spread over the eye by the lid, and it is afterward swept off by it,
and runs through a hole in the bone to the under surface of the nose, while the
warm air, passing over it while breathing, evaporates it. It is remarkable that
no such gland can be found in the eyes of fish, as the element in which they
live answers the same purpose. If the eye had not been furnished with a liquid
to wash it, and a lid to sweep it off, things would appear as they do when you
look through a dusty glass.

How the Eye is Protected from Irritation.—All along the edges of the eyelids
there is a great number of little tubes or glands, from which flow an oily
substance which spreads over the surface of the skin, and thus prevents the
edges from being sore or irritated, and it also helps to keep tears within the
lid. There are also six little muscles attached to the eye, which enable us to
move it in every direction; and when we consider the different motions they are
capable of giving to the eye, we cannot but admire the goodness of Him who
formed them, and thus saved us the trouble of turning our heads every time we
wish to view an object.

How to Improve the Eyelashes.—If the eyelashes be irregular or short, they can
be lengthened by simply clipping the split ends once a month.

Ladies in Oriental lands often resort to this method with invariable success.

Over-straining the Eyes.—This is done by trying to read or work with partial or
imperfect light. How common is our habit of using the eyes in the evening
twilight and just before "lighting up." We desire to complete some work, as
writing, reading, or sewing, by daylight, and so exert ourselves with
insufficient light. Every family should carefully guard against this. So also
care should be used that there shall be sufficient light after nightfall. When
needed for the comfort or convenience of the eyes, another candle, lamp, or
gas-burner must be lighted. The extra cost to the person will be more than
saved in the preservation of the sight.

Eye-strain Sometimes the Cause of Headache.—Recent experiments show what the
earlier physicians suspected, but could not demonstrate, that very troublesome
headaches are sometimes the immediate result of straining the eyes. In order to
test such cases, Dr. Wm. Thomson (Am. Journal of Medical Science, 1870)
recommends the use of "test disks." The simplest and most convenient one, that
described by Dr. Mitchell as a piece of closely-perforated Bristol-board or
card, may be made to answer as a qualitative test. If we pierce m a card, close
together, half a dozen pin holes, and view with one eye through these a tip of
gas-jet or a small candle flame at least fifteen feet distant, if there be
myopia or hypermatropia, the patient will see a number of points of light,
while the perfect, normal eye will see but one. If the disordered eye be
astigmatic, the multiplied images will be spread out laterally, if the defect
be in the horizontal meridian, or will be at right angles to this if it be in
the perpenSicular meridian. Physicians out of reach of the resources of the
great cities will find Dr. Thomson's test disks well worth learning to use.
Without it or more complex means no one can feel sure that in any case of
headache the cause may not be in the organs of vision. If found there, its
treatment will be at once suggested.

Danger of Too-Continuous Use.—Even when the light is abundant, the eye often
wearies after continuous use for a few hours. Especially is this true after
some physical debility. When such weariness arises work should be stopped for a
time. A brief rest of the eyes will generally bring relief, and permit a
renewal of the work without danger. It may be well to close the eyes for a
little while, or to walk out and use the eyes on distant objects, or else so
change the work in-doors for a little time as to lessen the fatigue.

Proper Distance of the Object.—Great care should be used in holding the object
at a proper distance from the eye. Generally, persons have the bad habit of
lowering the head to the object. In most cases 12 inches should be the least 
and about 20 inches the maximum distance for the book or work from the eye, in
ordinary cases. Seats ought always to be so adjusted to the height of tables or
desks, that it shall not be necessary for persons to stoop over into a "
round-shouldered " position in order to work or to read or write.

Proper Quantity of Light.—It is well known that we cannot look at the sun with
impunity. Even luminous objects, far less brilliant than the sun, cause a
painful sensation when their rays strike directly upon the eye. The more
uniformly the light is dispersed and the less directly its rays penetrate the
eye, the more beneficial is its action. The uniformly-dispersed daylight serves
as the best example. Every violent and sudden contrast between light and
darkness is disagreeable, and becomes injurious if frequently repeated.
Flickering light is likewise unpleasant and fatiguing. The simultaneous action
of luminous contrasts is also harmful. Such contrasts are produced when a
bright light is covered by a dark shade. The small space lighted is intensified
by the broad dark zone of shadow around it; and under the influence of such
contrary states of illumination, the eyes are strained and so tire easily. A
shade of ground glass or porcelain, covering the flame and causing a somewhat
subdued but uniform illumination, is far preferable to a dark shade. In these
materials we possess a powerful means of softening the dazzling light by
dispersion of its rays.

Best Direction of the light.—The best authorities assure us that "skylight," or
light from above, is the best light for all work not requiring a bent position
of the head, and, therefore, deserves a far more general application in the
construction of factories, work-shops, schools, and other buildings, or in the
methods of artificial illumination. In writing or similar handwork the work
should strike from the left side, in order to avoid the shadow cast by the
right hand; and in all cases it is far better that the light should come from
above than from below. For this reason, those window-shades that raise and
lower from the bottom, are preferable to the ordinary ones that are rolled at
the top, or to the window-awnings that shut out the light of the sky, and admit
it only from below. It is, therefore, important that parents and teachers in
schools should also see to it that pupils do not study with the direct rays of
the sunshine falling on the book, or desk, or floor, and that they do not, on
the other hand, sit directly facing low windows, as the eyes become dazzled by
either of these errors and injury may result.

The Use of Colored Glasses.—When there is perceived any great sensitiveness of
the eyes toward very bright or excessive light, toward white and reflecting
objects of work, or toward the reflection of the sun-light from snow and other
white surfaces, the use of spectacles with plain light-blue or gray (so-called
London smoke) glasses is generally safe and a great relief and protection; as
it softens the painful brilliancy, without interfering with ready sight. Blue
veils, to some extent, answer the same purpose as blue glasses.

Relieving Near and Far-sightedness.—Near-sightedness is remedied by wearing
concave glasses, and far-sightedness by convex glasses. Some think that by
manipulation of the eyes, such as pressing them if too convex, and rubbing them
up from the corners if too concave, will remedy the effect, but all this actum
is not only useless, but also injurious. For the kind of glasses consult an
op'ician, and for any defect or disease of the eyes, consult an oculist. The
eye is too delicate an organ to be treated except by a skillful physician.

Changing Sight not a Cause for Alarm 'As a rule the sight begins to

fail about the fortieth year. The first sign is a disposition to hold things at
a distance to see them well, as in reading. The circumstance may alarm a man,
who may hastily infer that disease is surely upon him. Eyes are sometimes put
out by false notions with regard to this condition of the sight. Resort is had
to artificial helps, as globes, manipulations, eye-washes, and perhaps salves.
In the first place, the reader should ascertain whether his age is not the
natural cause. He should then procure an eye-glass adapted to his sight in such
a way that he can see easily and readily what he could not before.

Use Glasses as Soon as Needed.—The opinion prevailmg with some that the early
use of glasses is harmful "in the end," is erroneous. When eyeglasses will
improve the sight, they should be worn; any delay will be liable to injure the
eyes by straining their already impaired power. Nearly all persons should use
glasses to read with as soon as they begin to hold a book more than eight
inches from the eyes.

Double Glasses sometimes Useful.—A New York optician has succeeded in helping
eyesight which requires a very short focus. This he does by putting together
two plane-convex lenses with their convex sights toward each other.

Squinting and its Remedy.—This painful affection of the eyes generally appears
about the fifth year, though sometimes as late as the eighteenth. The former of
these ages points to the methodical employment of the eyes upon near work, as
in learning to read, etc. There are times in all cases of strabismus
(squinting) when it is only observable during near vision; and the squint
alternates, as sometimes one eye is used, sometimes the other; or one may be
used for near, the other for distant sight. And soon the patient gets into the
habit of using one eye only, and the one disused becomes less and less
sensitive to the rays of light, until it is nearly or quite blind. Thus no
further calls are made for exertion upon the ciliary muscle, the internal
muscle relaxes, the external asserts itself; and the strabismus commences to
disappear; but if the vision were now tested, the eye will be found blind.

The obvious treatment for extreme strabismus is to prevent its confirmation by
putting correcting glasses on the child while the sight is still good for
distant vision. The objections often urged against the use of glasses by
children—" risk of breakage" and "appearance "—are unworthy of answer. What is
the temporary loss of a few cents, or of temporary change of the child's
appearance, compared to a permanent loss of sight!

A skillful surgeon will generally cure strabismus by cutting the ligament
which, by contraction, draws the eye out of place. The operation is neither
dangerous nor very painful.

Near-sightedness in Children.—Children troubled by near-sightedness should not
lean forward at their work, as thus the vessels of the eye become overcharged
with blood. They should avoid fine print, and spare tl eir eyes in every
possible way. If a person reach middle age without especial difficulty of
sight, he is comparatively safe.

How to Remove Foreign Bodies from the Eye.—If any foreign substance, (as
cinders, grains of sand, and broken eye-lashes,) gets into the eye, Jt should
be removed before inflammation takes place. If cinder or dust get into the eye,
and no surgeon is at hand, the eyes should be closed that tears may accumulate
in sufficient quantity, then take the point of a cambric handkerchief, and
opening the eye so as to turn back the lid, the substance can be removed. Some
use a small loop made from fine smooth wire, which may be moved around under
the lid.

"Eye-stones" or Grain of Flaxseed for the Eye.—The popular idea of the charm of
"eye-stones " is a delusion. While they seem to remove cinders, they really
raise the eyelid and allow the tears to do their proper work. A grain of
flaxseed answers quite as well.

"Wild Hairs," or hairs which have grown on the inner side of the lid, must be
extracted with forceps, and all matter which may have collected around the root
washed away.

"Cataract" in the Eye.—Cataract is a disease in which the crystalline lens or
its capsules become opaque, and thus obscure the vision. A skillful surgeon can
remove the lens or cause it to be absorbed, and the wearing of convex glasses
will remedy the defect. The treatment of such cases must always be referred to
competent medical authority.

Color-blindness The most frequent of this peculiar blindness (or Daltonism) is,
that the patient cannot distinguish red; next green; while such blindness for
blue is rare. Persons have been known to be blind in respect of two of the base
colors, and occasionally for all colors.

In an examination of 1,154 persons in Edinburgh, 5-6 per cent, were found
color-blind; and among 611 students of Harvard University and the Boston
Institute of Technology, 5 per cent, of the number were found to be affected by
it. Among the 3,000,000 of persons thus affected in France, the number oi
females as compared with men is about one to ten. Experience has proven that a
great number are thus defective in this respect without themselves or others
suspecting it.

Color-blindness Explained.—This strange fact is explained by our senses of the
exterior world being in a manner entirely practical. Objects are permanently
invested by us with qualities which are first noted. Thus if we say this carpet
is red, it will afterward seem to us to be a red carpet. So not only by the
color do we recognize it, but by a complex combination of qualities among which
the real sensation of color plays a small part. Thus we learn the sky is blue,
grass green, bricks red.

The Question of Color-blindness Important.—The traveling public, both on sea
and land, know the use of red and green signals is universal. The only security
against collisions and other accidents—especially at night— is a proper
interpretation of such colors. Hence the importance of securing for important
posts employes of whose correct sight there can be no doubt. Among the
examining tests which have been tried, the simplest and best seems to be the
one used more than twenty years ago by Wilson, of Edinburgh, * more recently
revived by Holmgren; and which is now generally adopted in Europe. The person
examined is directed to match different-colored worsteds.

Cure of Color-blindness.—In nine out of ten cases it may be easily cured in
young subjects. The best method of treatment consists in methodical exercise of
the eyes on colored objects. The women of a family ought to undertake the
development of the chromatic sense in children, and especially those who may
commit errors in the denomination of colors. They should be careful not to
ridicule these "Daltonians." In future no one ought to be admitted into the
service of the railways, the marine, or schools of painting without an
examination as to colors. "Daltonians" should never be intrusted with any
service connected with colored signals. Regular exercises in colors should be
instituted, both in the marine and army. Examinations and exercises in colors
should be established in all schools.

Medical Treatment of Color-blindness.—By a recent discovery Daltonism, or
"color-blindness," can be cured by looking through a layer of fuscine (a
dark-colored substance obtained from animal oil) in solution. A practical
application of this discovery has been made by M. Joval, in France, by
interposing between two glasses a thin layer of gelatine.

False Sight Explained.—Dr. Clarke's attention being drawn to this subject by
striking cases of hallucination of sight, explains these phenomena as according
with the accepted facts of anatomy and physiology. "Tho apparatus of human
vision," he says, "may be described as a mechanism consisting of fine organs,
closely connected and in intimate communication with each other. Each member of
this apparatus has its special fuEtiion, and each one is supposed to do its own
part or duty honestly; that is, never to send a report to a station above which
it has not received from below. Nevertheless, modified by disease, disturbed by
drugs, or influenced by the brain itself, it sometimes plays false." Dr. Clarke
claims that false sight is analogous to that well known false sensation of pain
in a limb days or weeks after amputation, and describes several forms of false
sight (pseudopia) arising from different cerebral conditions; sometimes
provoked by an abnormal habit like somnambulism and somnolentia, and sometimes
by active cerebral disorder like delirium tremens; sometimes by febrile
excitement, sometimes by anxiety and mental strain, by stimulants; and by an
act of volition aided by habit, association and emotion.*

How to Treat a Sty.—The sty is a small boil protruding from the eyelid. It will
usually pass away of itself, but its cure may be hastened by applying a warm
poultice of bread and water in a small linen bag. Apply three or four times a
day, and each time foment the eye with warm milk and water.

Important hints Concerning Eyesight.—Unless circumstances demand it, it is
better that no one should read, sew, or use the eyes for any close work on
objects near by before breakfast or immediately after a full meal.

Bad air and bad food often cause diseased eyes.

♦Among the cases cited by Dr. Clarke are the following': Mrs. B. .. . a lady
thirty years old, experiences an hallucination when about to suffer some sort
of febrile attack, like a cold, fever, or gastric derangement; and it
disappears when the attack is fully developed. Suddenly there appears to her
the figure of a woman with a veiled face, dressed in white, coming unbidden at
any time of day or night, sometimes sitting, sometimes standing, and sometimes
walking. Once, when dining out, she found the placo assigned to her at table
occupied by her "familiar spirit.'' She thrust her fan into it, and it moved
aside and vanished.

A similar hallucination in a lady of middle age, with the predisposing causes,
an excessively nervous temperament, raised into morbid activity by domestic
troubles and malarial exposure. At the periods when she suffered most, she
would see. when she awoke in the morning, an unknown woman sitting at the foot
of her bed. After a few minutes the apparition would rise and glide through the
side of the room.

Still another case is that of an old man, whose hallucinations were both
optical and auditory. He saw three persons in his bedroom, habited as public
singers usually are, who entertained fcim with excellent singing, between the
pieces chatting with one another in Italian. They aj^t;«ared but once. **
During a long life his brain cells had been often grouped at the sound of music
and the sight of musical performers." There was some cerebral congestion, and
he finally died of brain disease.

A case, called to mind by the above statements, is as follows: An elderly
physician, having experienced no unusual exercise of mind or feeling, nor
having his attention particularly drawn to any thing directly or indirectly
connected with the subsequent occurrence, on his way to a summer residence of a
friend, observed, when within a hundred feet of the house, a lady without
bonnet or shawl, passing along by the side of the house toward its front, which
was not within sight from the approach until the visitor nearly reached it. He
expected, of course, to meet her on the piazza, but found no one there, nor was
there the appearance of the house being occupied. A few moments after, he met
the gardener at work near by, who told him Mrs. S. was very ill in the city,
that none of the family had con^ down, that the house had not been opened, and
that no one, man or woman, had recently been on the grounds. Mrs. S. died nine
or ten hours afterwards.

Cold water is about the safest application for inflamed eyes. Poultices should
never be used.

Avoid all sudden changes between light and darkness.

Avoid looking suddenly from a near object to one in the distance.

Never sleep so that on awaking the eyes shall open on the light of the window.

Do not use eyesight by light so scant that it requires an effort to
discriminate.

Never read or sew directly in front of the light of a window.

It is best to have the light from above, or obliquely, or over the left
shoulder.

Too much light creates a glare, and pains and confuses the sight. The miiment
you are sensible of an effort to distinguish, that mcment atop and talk, walk
or ride.

As the sky is blue and the earth green, it would seem that the ceiling should
be a bluish tinge, the carpet green, and the walls of some mellow tint.

The moment you are instinctively inclined to rub the eyes, that moraon' cease
to use them.

CARE OF THE EAR. How Sound is Produced.—Whenever one body strikes another in
the air, waves are produced, just as when we throw a stone into the water a
series of concentric circles surround the spot where it sinks. These waves of
air strike upon the membrane. This vibrates and sends the motion along the
chain of bones in the middle ear to the fluids of the labyrinth. Here,
bristles, sand, and stones pound away, and the wondrous harp of the cochlea,
catching up the pulsations, carries them to the fibres of the auditory nerve,
which conveys them to the brain, and gives the mind the idea of sound.

Careful Attention and Treatment.—The ear needs the greatest care. Cold water
should not be allowed to enter the external ear. If the wax accumulates, never
remove it with a hard instrument, but with a little warm water, turning the
head to let it run out. The hair around the ears should never be left wet, as
it may chill this sensitive organ.

Temporary Deafness.—This may be causedrby the gathering and hardening of
ear-wax, in which case the cause may be removed as shawn above. Temporary
deafness, sometimes from imperfect action of the Eustacian tubo,*

♦The Eustacian tube extends from the mouth to ttie middle ear, or cavity inside
the eardrum, for the purpose of admitting the air freely inside of Lite
tympanum or iiu''drutn.

[ocr errors]

caused by inflammation of the ear. In such cases the muscles that open the tube
should be kept in action by a gargle of alum, or chlorate of potash, or cold
water. ,

Insect in the Ear.—If an insect gets into the ear, pour a little sweet oil into
it and kill it, and then remove it with warm water. If this treatment fails,
plug the external meatus with a piece of "cotton-wool," thoroughly saturated
with a strong solution of common salt or vinegar, and large enough to close the
orifice completely. After its introduction, turn the patient on the side
affected, and press the hand firmly on the ear. In a few minutes the noise and
irritation caused by the insect, will cease, and, if the plug be withdrawn, the
insect will probably be found partially imbedded in its substance.

Other Small Bodies in the Ear —To remove small bodies, a stream of water may be
thrown gently into the canal, or a scoop or bent probe may be used.

Fungus in the Ear.—Exposure of the external ear to an impure, damp atmosphere,
coupled with neglect to cleanse the ear, often results in the growth of fungus,
which can be detected by the microscope. One physician reports that he can
"count such cases by the hundred." The fungus affects the walls of the external
ear. One physician reports the case of a cobbler who was accustomed to sit on a
bench with his left side close to a window opening into a damp, low atmosphere.
He became nearly deaf in that ear from the growth of the fungus "on the old
wax."

Remedy for Fungus.—Wash away the large masses with a syringe, and apply a weak
solution of sulphate of zinc—eight grains to the ounce; after the fungus is
removed, to prevent its return, keep the meatus of the ear free and dry.

"Singing in the Ear."—Michael, who was well acquainted with the sedative
influence of nitrite of amyl on the sympathetic system, and especially on the
vaso-motor nerves, resolved (Archives Med. Beiges) to try whether it would not
prove equally successful in singing in the ear, and eventually obtained good
results in nineteen cases out of twenty-seven.

From two to five drops of nitrite of amyl were inhaled in one dose. The
inhalation was continued as long as the following symptoms lasted, viz., a
flushed face and injection of the vessels of the eye, and was discontinued the
moment the patient began to feel giddy. It was noticed that all the patients
who subsequently improve?!, complained that the noise in the ears increased
during inhalation, but as soon as the flush began to disappear on the face, the
singing noise decreased, and was less than before inhalation. In some patients
the improvement lasted only one hour, in others for some weeks, but at a rule
i. lasted from two to ten days. A second inhalation, if not made

too soon after the first, had much more marked effects. The author thinks that
at least two days must be allowed to elapse between two inhalations; and that
the secend must not be taken in cases of acute catarrh, or where the singing
noise is due to some mechanical cause.—London Medical Record, May 15, 1879.

Remedies for Earache.—1. Dr. Browning, of Mississippi, earnestly commends the
following prescription as a remedy for acute earache: Tobacoo, (cut fine,) one
drachm; glycerine, one ounce; mix, and put five drops into the ear once a day.

2. A case is related of a person suffering with intense pain from earache, who,
after trying all other remedies without relief, was finally cured by pouring
vinegar upon a hot brick, and with a funnel conducting the steam into the ear.
Relief was quick and permanent.

3. Take a small piece of cotton-wool, making a depression in the center with a
finger, and fill it with as much ground pepper as will rest on a fivecent
piece, gather it into a ball and tie it up, dip the ball into sweet oil and
insert it into the ear, covering the latter with cotton-wool, and use a bandage
or cap to retain it in its place. Almost instant relief will be experienced,
and the application is so gentle that an infant will not be injured by it, but
experience relief, as well as adults.

4. Generally heat is an efficient remedy. Apply a warm poultice or warm oil to
the ear. Rub the back of the ear with warm laudanum. In case of a fetid
discharge, carefully syringe the ear with warm milk and water. In all cases
keep the ear thoroughly cleansed. Relief is often given by rubbing the back of
the ear with a little hartshorn and water.

Earache Relieved by Arnica.—A physician cudorses the following: There is,
however, one remedy which the experience of twenty years has taught us is
unfailing. We have seen it repeatedly tried in our own family, and have
frequently recommended it to others, always with the name satisfactory result.
No house should be without its bottle of arnica. It is indispensable in cases
of cuts, burns, and bruises, and in earache it is a sovereign cure. As soon as
any soreness is felt in the ear, which feeling mostly precedes the regular
"ache," let three or four drops of tincture of arnica be poured in, and then
the orifice filled with a little cotton to exclude the air, and in a short time
the uneasiness is forgotten. If the arnica is not resorted to until there is
actual pain, the cure may not be so speedy, but it is just as certain. If one
application of the. arnica does not effect a cure, it will be necessary to
repeat it, it may be several times. It is a sure preventive of gathering in the
ear, which is the usual cause of earache. We have never yet known any harm or
serious inconvenience to attend the use of arnica; though if the spirits with
which it is made arc strong, it may be diluted with a little water, as the
spirits, not the arnica, will sometimes cause a temporary dizziness of the
head, which is unpleasant.

Don't Treat the Ear for Toothache.—It is a bad practice to put cotton-wool
soaked in laudanum or chloroform into the ear for the relief of toothache. It
is true that it may sometimes prove effectual and procure a night's rest, for
the connection between the teeth and the ear is very close. But let it be borne
in mind that the ear is far too delicate and valuable an organ to be used as a
medium for the application of strong remedies for disorders of the teeth, and
that both laudanum and chloroform, more especially the latter, are powerful
irritants, and that such applications are always accompanied with risk. The
teeth should be looked after for themselves by some competent dentist; and if
toothache spreads to the ear, this is another reason why they should be
attended to at once, for prolonged pain in the head, arising from the teeth,
may itself injure the hearing. In earache everything should be done to soothe
it, and all strong, irritating applications should be avoided. Pieces of hot
fig or onion should on no account be put in; but warm flannels should be
applied, with poppy fomentations, externally, if the pain does not soon
subside.

Don't "Box the Ears."—The practice of boxing children's ears is exceedingly
reprehensible. It is known that the passage of the ear is closed by a thin
membrane, especially adapted to be influenced by every impulse of the air, and
with nothing but the air to support it internally. What, then, can be more
likely to injure this membrane than a sudden and forcible compression of the
air in front of it? If any one designed to break or over-stretch the membrane,
a more efficient means could scarcely be devised than to bring the hand
suddenly and forcibly down upon the passage of the er.r, thus driving the air
violently before it, with no possibility of its escape but by the membrane
giving way. Medical authorities assert that children are in this way made more
or less deaf by boxing on the car.

CARE OF THE NOSE.-SMELLING.

The Sense of Smell.—The nostrils open at the back into the pharynx, and are
lined by a continuation of the mucous membrane of the throat. The olfactory
nerves enter through a sieve-like bony plate at the roof of the nose, and are
distributed over the inner surface of the two olfactory chambers. The purpose
of the sense of smell is to warn us of the presence of foul air, and to aid us
in the selection of food.

The Object May be Distant.—The object to be smelled need not touch the nose,
but tiny particles borne on the air enter the nasal passages. Three qualtera of
a grain of musk placed in a room causes a very powerful odor for a considerable
length of time, without any sensible diminution in weight. Odors are
transported by the air' a long distance. Navigators state that the winds bring
the odors of the spice islands to them when far away at sea.

Foreign Substances in the Nose.—Beans, cherry-pits, peas, etc., often cause
considerable, but not serious, inconvenience among children. The simplest way
of getting rid of the intruder is to close the opposite nostril, and blow
forcibly into the patient's mouth. Sometimes sneezing, caused by snuff
introduced into the nostril, will dislodge the object. In place of this, a
stream of water carried into the nostril by means of a nasal douche, may wash
out the material. When simple measures fail, a physician must be called, and
the forceps resorted to.

Bleeding from the Nose.—The causes which commonly produce bleeding from the
nose, are those which send the blood too strongly to the head, such as strong
coffee, too full living, exposure to heat, excess in drinking; any violent
mental excitement, constipation, etc. It is also caused by tight lacing, tight
neck-cloths, blows on the nose, etc. In the majority of cases it is beneficial,
but may be so persistent as to endanger life.

Treatment of Excessive Nose-Bleed.—The patient should be exposed to cool air.
The head should not hang over a basin, but be kept raised. Find which nostril
the blood escapes from, and on that side raise the arm perpendicularly, and
hold the nose firmly with the finger and thumb. At the same time a towel wet
with ice-water may be laid on the forehead. A piece of ice, a snowball, or cold
water compress applied to the back of the neck will often stop the bleeding.
The popular remedy of placing a cold key between the clothes and the back
should not be forgotten. A more powerful remedy, one which seldom fails, i3
that of blowing, by means of a quill, powdered gumarabic into the nostrils.
When clotted blood forms in the nostrils it should be disturbed as little as
possible.

Simple Remedy for Nose-Bleed.—A friend who has tried it, says: "Put a piece of
paper in your mouth, chew it rapidly, and it will stop your nose from bleeding.
This remedy has been tried frequently with success."

A physician says that placing a small roll of paper or muslin above the front
teeth, under the upper lip, and pressing hard on the same, will arrest bleeding
from the nose, checking the passage of the blood through the arteries leading
to the nose.

Catarrh of the Nose.—This disease is not usually absolutely painful, but it is
yet in many cases intensely harassing. It is universal, for neither sex and no
age is free from liability to acute attacks of it. The one great cause of it is
exposure to cold, sitting in draughts, wetting the feet, and all circumstances
that conspire to close the pores of the skin, may bring on a severe attack in a
few hours. The chief predisposing causes arc confinement in over-heated rooms,
and the eating and drinking of hot substances.

Treatment of Nasal Catarrh.—No two cases can be treated exactly alike. The
special remedy to be used, and the strength of the solution must be determined
by the progress of the case. In almost all cases weak solution of chlorate of
potash, applied by means of a syringe, will prove beneficial. Carbolic acid,
nitric acid, Lugol's solution, iodine and glycerine, tannin and glycerine, are
also beneficial, and are to be applied in the same manner, or in the absence of
a syringe, be snuffed into the nostrils.

CARE OF THE TEETH.

Number of the Teeth.—The teeth are classed with the mucous membrane, as are the
hair, nails, horn, and scales, which though always found in connection with the
skeleton, are neither bone nor are they formed in the same manner as bone. They
are thirty-two in number, sixteen in each jaw, similarly shaped and arranged.

How the Teeth are Classified.—There are eight teeth in each half jaw, making
thirty-two in all. In each half jaw the two nearest the middle of each jaw have
wide, sharp, chisel-like edges fit for cutting, and hence are called incisors. 
The next one in each half corresponds to the great tearing or holding tooth of
the dog, and is called canine (from canis, a dog) or eye tooth. The next two
have broader crowns with two points or cusps, and hence art called the
bicuspids. The remaining three on each side in each jaw are much broader, and
as they are used to crush the food they are called grinders or molars. The
incisors and eye teeth have one fang or root, the others have two or three
each.

Order and Period of their Growth.—We are provided with two sets of teeth. The
first or "milk teeth," are small and are only twenty in number. The middle
incisors are usually cut about the age of seven months, and the others at the
age of nine months; the first molars at the age of twelve months; and the
canine at the age of eighteen months; tlie remaining molars at two and three
years of age. The lower teeth precede the corresponding upper ones. At six
years of age, when the first set are usually still perfect, the jaws contain
the crowns of all the second except the wisdom teeth. About this age, to meet
the wants of the growing body, the crowns of the second set begin to press
against the roots of the milk teeth which, becoming absorbed, leave the
loosened teeth to drop out, while the new onen rise and occupy their places.
The central incisors appear at about seven years of age, the others at eight;
the first bicuspids at nine, the second at ten; the canines at eleven or
twelve; the second molars at thirteen, and the dens sajrientiac or " wisdom
teeth" (further back) in the twenty-second year. Sometimes these are cut at a
later period.

The Composition of Teeth. - The interior of the tooth consists of denline, a
substance resembling bone. In the tusk of the elephant it is known as ivory.
The crown is protected by a sheath of enamel, a hard, glistening white
substance, containing only two and a half per cent, of animal matter. The fang
is covered by a thin layer of true bone. At the center of the tooth is a cavity
filled with a soft, reddish-white pulpy substance full of blood, vessels and
nerves. This pulp is very sensitive and toothache is caused by its irritation.
The tooth is not set in the jaw like a nail in wood, having the fang in contact
with bone, but the socket is lined with a membrane which forms a soft cushion.
While this is in a healthy state it deadens the force of any shock, but when
inflamed becomes the seat of excruciating pain.

Causes of Decay.—The decay of the teeth is commonly caused by portions of food
which become entangled between them, and on account of the heat and moisture
quickly decompose. As the saliva evaporates it leaves on the teeth a sediment
which is called tartar. This collects the organic matter which rapidly changes
and also affords a soil in which a sort of fungus speedily springs up. From
these causes the teeth are injured and the breath becomes offensive. The teeth
can only be preserved by keeping them clean.

Want of Cleanliness.—This is, perhaps, the most direct of the preventable
causes of the most common dental disease, namely, decay; for this is always the
result of chemical action, progressing from without inward. Food allowed to
remain in the crevices and interstices of the teeth soon decomposes, aided as
it is by the heat and moisture of the mouth; an acid being generated attacks
the tooth structure, gradually but surely decomposing it—and this decay so
formed is capable of again reproducing itself by its attack upon the sound bone
beneath it. Time only is needed for the complete destruction of the structure,
the rapidity of which is retarded or not by the circumstances of constitution,
vital force, etc.

Deposit of Tartar Injurious.—An earthy substance, commonly known as tartar, is
in greater or less quantities deposited on all teeth, which, if allowed to
accumulate and harden, works great mischief by pressing the gums from their
normal position, causing inflammation in them, and instead of being firm are
spongy, bleeding from the slightest pressure. The roots of the teeth being thus
partially exposed, they gradually become loose and sore, and often teeth which
are so perfect in formation as to resist the action of decaying

agents, perfectly sound in themselves, lose so much of their vital connection
with their sockets as to drop out. So insidiously do both of these diseased
conditions progress, especially the latter, that many are just startled from
complacent reflection on the fact of never having had toothache, to lament over
irrecoverable loss.

How to Care for Permanent Teeth.—The value of the permanent teeth depends
largely upon healthfulness of the first or temporary set. The milk teeth should
be cared for and preserved till nature is ready to supply their places with the
permanent organs; so that the arch of the mouth may be preserved, and that the
roots may be absorbed and the material therein may not be lost to the system in
the development of the new tooth. Irregularity of the second set would be
almost unknown if by frequent visits to a competent dentist the first teeth
were retained until nature should have no further use for them, and then 
removed.

How to Care for the Teeth Early.—The child should be taught at five to dampen
the brush in water every morning, rub it over a cake of castile soap, and then
brush the teeth well, inside and out, front and rear; until, with the aid only
of the saliva, the mouth is full of soap-suds: then rinse with tepid water,
twirling the brush sideways over the back part of the tongue, so as to cleanse
it fully of the soap and leave a good taste; after each meal the mouth should
be well rinsed with tepid water, as also the last thing on retiring. The mouth
maintains a temperature of ninety-eight degrees; hence, if any food lodges
about or between the teeth, it begins to rot very soon, giving out an acid
which immediately begins to eat into the tooth, preparatory to an early decay;
if solid particles are observed to lodge between the teeth, the child should be
taught to use a very thin quill to dislodge it, but not without; for the more a
quill is used the greater space between the teeth, which is a misfortune, as it
necessitates the use of a toothpick for all after life, consuming a great deal
of valuable time. A clean tooth does not decay.

How Often Should the Teeth be Washed ?—Grown people should clean their teeth at
least five times in the course of the twenty-four hours— on rising in the
morning and on going to bed at night, and after each meal. A brush as hard as
can be borne without pain should be used, and the best of all applications is
pure soap and water, always luke-warm.

Use of Aromatic Water.—It is the custom in some parts of England and France to
rinse the mouth with warm aromatic water after eating. It is well to remember
that this precaution not only tends to keep the teeth clean, but to clear the
voice of those about to sing or converse.

A Mixture for the Teeth.—Dissolve two ounces of borax in three pints of boiling
water, and before it Is cold add one teaspoonful of spirits of camphor, and
bottle for use. A tablespuonful of this mixture, mixed with an equal quantity
of tepid water, and applied daily with a soft brush, preserves and beautifies
the teeth, extirpates all tartarous adhesions, arrests decay, induces a healthy
action of the gums, and makes them look pearly white.

Tooth-Powders often Injurious.—Most kinds of tooth-powders are injurious both
to the enamel and the gums; and if employed, every particle of them should be
removed from the mouth by careful rinsing. The habit which some women have of
using a bit of lemen, though it may whiten the teeth, and give temporary
firmness and color to the gums, is fatal to the enamel, as are all acids.

"Cracking Nuts with the Teeth."—No one, young or old, should turn their jaws
into nut-crackers; and it is dangerous even for women to bite off, as they
often do, the ends of thread in sewing.

Importance of Healthful Gums.—Wholesome gums are more essential even than the
teeth to the beauty of the mouth. They should be of a firm texture and a lively
red color, and well spread over the base of each tooth, but they are often pale
or livid, shrunken, fleshless, and sometimes even ulcerated. The excessive use
of sugar and candies does great mischief. It is not chiefly the bad effect of
the acids produced by their composition, but the grittiness of these substances
which wears away the gum, bares the roots of the tooth, and spoils the mouth.
This is the chief danger of the use of toothpowders.

Teething.—Young children, while cutting their first set of teeth, often suffer
constitutional disturbance. At first they are restless and peevish, but not
unfrequently these symptoms are followed by convulsive fits, and sometimes
under this condition the child is either cut off suddenly, or the foundation of
serious mischief to the brain is laid. The remedy, or rather safeguard, against
these circumstances consists merely in lancing the gum covering the tooth which
is making its way through.

Keep close watch over the gums, and when they are swollen and red have them
lanced immediately. The teeth will probably come through the day after lancing,
but if they do not, and the cut heals, and a scar forms, there is nothing to be
feared, as, when the teeth fmally appear, the scar will give way much more
easily than the uncut gum. If the teeth do not come through after two or three
days, the lancing may be repeated; and this is especially needed if the child
seems in much pain. The relief children experience in the course of two or
three hours from the operation is often very remarkable.

"Toothache Cures."—1. Relief from toothache or neuralgic affections arising
from teeth in any stage of decay, may often be obtained by saturating a small
bit of clean cotton or wool with a strong solution of ammonia, and applying it
immediately to the affected tooth. The pleasant contrast instantaneously
produced sometimes causes a fit of laughter, although a moment before extreme
suffering and anguish prevailed.

2. One dram of collodiura flexile added to two drams of Calvert's carbolic acid
is a most excellent application. A small portion should be inserted into the
cavity of the tooth by means of a bit of lint.

3. Powdered alum and salt mixed in equal quantities, and placed on a small
piece of damp cotton, and put into the cavity, sometimes gives permanent
relief.

At a meeting of the London Medical Society, Dr. Blake, a distinguished
practitioner, said that he was able to cure the most desperate case of the
toothache, unless the disease was connected with rheumatism, by the application
of the following remedy: Alum, reduced to an impalpable powder, two drams;
nitrous spirits of ether, seven drams; mix, and apply to the tooth.

4. Two or three drops of essential oil of cloves put upon a small piece of lint
or cotton-wool, and placed in the hollow of the tooth, will be found to have
the active power of curing the toothache without destroying the tooth or
injuring the gums.

5. Toothache may be temporarily alleviated by scrupulously cleaning out the
cavity of the tooth—as decay has generally hollowed it at some part— and
dropping into this cavity a piece of cotton-wool soaked in creosote, or a
strong solution of alum. After using the creosote, etc., the hollow of the
tooth should be filled up with a pellet of cotton-wool saturated with a
solution of gum-mastic in ether, or with a piece of gutta-percha softened in
boiling water. The condition of the stomach and bowels should in all cases of
toothache be attended to.

6. A Paris journal states that Dr. Bouchard,, of that city, finds the use of
electricity very efficient in cases of severe toothache, a perfect cure, even
where the teeth are greatly decayed, being not unfrequently obtained, and
temporary relief almost invariably ensuing. In numerous instances where
alleviation was at first of short duration, the effect became more and more
marked, and longer, as the treatment was repeated. The method pursued by Dr.
Bouchard, in applying the electricity, is to place the positive pole of the
current on the cheek opposite the diseased tooth, and the negative upon the
anterolateral portion of the neck; and, to avoid ulcerations, the electrodes
are made very large, and their places frequently changed. The application is
continued for about half an hour, although relief is frequently experienced in
ten to fifteen minutes. A battery of about ten elements is used.

What to Do with Decayed Teeth.—Decayed teeth should have attention at once. M 
only partially destroyed, the decayed part may be cut away, and a filling
inserted; but a tooth much decayed should never be allowed to remain in the
mouth, as it will destroy its neighbors.

Artificial Teeth.—When teeth become so troublesome as to habitually disturb the
nervous system, they should be removed. Many diseases are caused, and most
others greatly aggravated, by toothache. "Stop the ache, or remove the tooth,"
should be universally obeyed. Thousands of persons suffer for years in great
discomfort to themselves and to all around them, until their constitutions are
permanently impaired, when the removal of a single tooth would bring permanent
relief.

CARE OF THE HAIR.

Growth of the Hair.—At the root of each hair is a tiny bulb, in which the
nutriment is supplied. As long as these fculbs (papiUm) remain in a healthy
condition, the hair will continue to grow. It is of the first importance,
therefore, that the scalp be kept clean, the pores open, and the processes of
the nutritive supply free and active.

How to Preserve the Hair.—Wash the scalp often and thoroughly with soft water,
and wipe it dry with a towel. Keep the head well ventilated. If the hat is
close, lift it often and let in the fresh air. A hat with a crown in which
there is room for a reservoir of air, is much better than a close-fitting cap.
Hats should not be worn in-doors.

Why Ladies are not Bald.—Ladies, notwithstanding they wear long hair, (which is
more likely to fall out,) seldom are bald-headed. Their heads are not kept
covered in-doors, and when out-doors they are not closely covered. In sleeping
none should confine the hair in a close night-cap.

Why the Hair Falls Out.—Hair falls out for want of nourishment. It dies just as
a blade of grass dies in a soil where there is no moisture. This want of
nourishment is only "functional," the papillas sacs and other apparatus remain,
but are inactive. The mechanism which supplies it, the apparatus, is there to
make it; but it is out of order, and makes it imperfectly; so the hair being
imperfectly nourished, is dry, scant, or a mere furze, according to the degree
of the defective nourishment.

How to Prevent the Hair from Falling Out.—As to men, when the hair begins to
fall out, the best plan is to have it cut short, give it a good brushing with a
moderately-stiff brush while the hair is dry, then wash it well with warm
soap-suds, then rub into the scalp, about the roots of the hair, a little bay
rum or camphor water. Do these things at least once a week. The brushing of the
scalp may be profitably done twice a week. Dampen the hair with water every
time the toilet is made. Nothing ever made is better for the hair than pure
soft water, if the scalp is kept clean in the way we have named.

"Organic Baldness" Incurable.—" Organic" baldness is when the defect of
nutriment arises from the destruction of the papilla;, the apparatus which made
it. When the scalp is in any part entirely bare of hair, and shiny or
glistening, that is organic baldness, and there is no remedy.

"Functional" Baldness Curable.—When the bulbs are uninjured, that is, the
nutritive organs remain, but have become partially or wholly inactive, this is
"functional baldness," and can be remedied radically and permanently in only
one way and that is by taking means to improve the general health

How to Cure Functional Baldness. — If there is not that shining, glistening
appearance, but a multitude of very small hairs, causing a " furziness " over
the scalp, that is "functional" baldness; and two things are to be done. Keep
the scalp clean with soap-suds—that is a "balm of a thousand flowers." More
especially and principally seek to improve your general health by eating plain,
substantial food three regular times a day, and by spending three or four hours
between meals in moderate exercise in the open air or in some engrossing
employment.

A little turpentine applied to the bald patches by means of sponges, will
hasten the first appearance of the hair, and the growth of hair, when it
recommences, may be stimulated by constant shaving.

Avoid Hair-Dyes.— Hair dyes, or so-called "hair-restorers," should be
strenuously avoided, as they tend to fill the pores of the skin, and almost
invariably contain poisonous matters, which the system absorbs.

Caution in Using "Hair-Oils."—The frequent use of "oils," "bear's grease,"
"arcturine," "pomades," "lustrals," "rosemary washes," and such like upon the
hair, is a practice not to be commended. These oils and greasy pomades are
manufactured from lard-oil and simple lard. No "bear's grease" is ever used. If
it could be procured readily it should not be applied to the hair, as it is the
most rank and filthy of all the animal fats.

A Good Hair Dressing.—There are many persons whose hair is naturally very dry
and crisp; and in most families there is a want of some innocent and agreeable
wash or dressing, which may be used moderately and judiciously. The mixture
which may be regarded as the most agreeable, cleanly, and safe, is composed of
cologne spirit and pure castor-oil. The following is a good formula: Pure,
fresh castor-oil, two ounces; cologne spirit, (ninety-five per cent.,) sixteen
ounces. The oil is freely dissolved in the spirit, and the solution is clear
and beautiful. It may be perfumed in any way to suit the fancy of the
purchaser. t

Value of Castor-Oil for the Hair.—A competent writer in the Boston Journal of
Chemistry urges that the oil of the castor-bean has for many

years been employed to dress the hair, both among the savage and civilized
nation?, and it possesses properties which admirably adapt it to this use. It
does not dry rapidly; and no gummy, offensive residuum remains, after taking on
all the chemical changes which occur in all oils upon exposure to light and
air. It is best diffused by the agency of strong spirits, in which it
dissolves, the alcohol or spirit rapidly evaporates, and does not, in the
slightest degree, injure the texture of the hair. This preparation for dressing
the hair of children or ladies will meet nearly or quite all requirements.

A Preparation of Glycerine and Rose-water Recommended.—A

cheap and very good dressing is made by dissolving four wmces of perfectly
pure, dense glycerine in twelve ounces of rose-water. Glycerine evaporates only
at high temperatures; and therefore, under its influence the hair is retained
in a moist condition for a long time.

Relative Value of Other Oil Preparations.—As a class, the vegetable oils are
better for the hair than animal oils. They do not become rancid and offensive
so rapidly, and they are subject to different and less objectionable chemical
changes.

Olive-oil, and that derived from the cocoa-nut, have been largely employed, but
they are far inferior, in every respect, to that from the castor-bean.

How to Prevent the Hair from Turning Gray.—The hair may be

prevented, generally for a considerable time, from turning gray, by keeping the
head cool, and by using occasionally sage tea with a little borax added. With a
small sponge apply to every part of the head just before or at the time of
dressing the hair.

Washing the Hair with Soda-water, Relieves Headache.—Many persons find speedy
relief for nervous headache by washing the hair thoroughly in weak soda-water.
I have known severe cases almost wholly cured in ten minutes by this simple
remedy. A friend finds it the greatest relief in cases of "rare cold," the cold
symptoms entirely leaving the eyes and nose after one thorough washing of the
hair. The head should be thoroughly dried afterward, and drafts of air avoided
for a little while.

Sudden Changes in the Color of the Hair. — Sudden and severe frights have
sometimes so affected the nerves connected with the papilla; at the roots of
the hair, as to produce instantaneous changes in the color of the hair. A
German medical magazine, now before us, reports two recent cases.

A Remarkable Case in Berlin.—A physician of Berlin, a strong, healthy, and less
than middle-aged man, sent his wife and one daughter to spend last summer at a
watering-place. The day that he expected a letter informing him of their
arrival, there came one saying that his daughter had been taken sick very
suddenly, and was already dead. The shock was terrible, and instantly his hair
became entirely gray. He had to visit some patients that same afternoon, and
they scarcely recognized him. Their peculiar actions revealed the change to
him.

A Remarkable Case in Rotterdam.—Another case was that of a man thirty-five
years old, living in the Netherlands. He was one day passing the canal in
Rotterdam, when he saw a child struggling in the water. He plunged in and
brought it to land, but it was already dead by the time he had rescued its
body. Bending over to try to restore life, he discovered that the dead child
was his own son. The blow, so sudden and unexpected, and coming upon him when
he himself was so much exhausted, turned his hair entirely gray, and left him
scarcely recognizable.

Sudden Changes of Color without Fright. — That eminent savan, Dr.
Brown-Sequard, in his Archives de Physiologie, discovered a rapid transition in
color, on certain portions of his face, while he was in perfect health. After
detailing the particulars in the case, he says that, without any appreciable
cause, other than that which at a certain age makes the beard turn white, there
took place in his case a very rapid change of color, from black to white, in a
considerable number of the hairs upon his face. As far as he could ascertain,
this change occurred always in the night. He did not examine the whitened hairs
with the microscope. He concludes that this experience of his puts beyond a
doubt the possibility of a very rapid transformation (probably in less than
alight) of black hairs into white.

Utility of Beards.—A recent writer in one of our standard magazines strongly
puts the case as follows: There are more solid inducements for wearing the
beard than the mere improvement of a man's personal appearance, and the
cultivation of such an aid to the every-day diplomacy of life. Nature
combining, as she never fails to do, the useful with the ornamental, provides
us with a far better respirator than science could ever make, and one that is
never so hideous to wear as that black seal upon the face that looks like a
passport to the realms of suffering and death. The hair of the moustache not
only absorbs the moisture and miasma of the fogs, but it strains the air from
the dust and soot of our great cities. It acts, also, in the most scientific
manner, by taking heat from the warm breath as it leaves the chest, and
supplying it to the cold air taken in. It is not only a respirator, but, with
the beard entire, we are provided with a comforter as well; and these are never
left at home, like umbrellas, and all such appliances, whenever they are
wanted. Moffat and Livingstone, the African explorers, and many other
travelers, say that in the night no wrapper can equal the beard. A remarkable
thing is, too, that the beard, like the hair of the head, protects against the
heat of the sun; but, more than this, it becomes moist with the perspiration,
and then, by evaporation, cools the skin.

To Remove Dandruff,—1. Wash the head thoroughly and often with pure soft water,
and brush it thoroughly until the hair is dry. 2. The white of an egg rubbed
thoroughly into the hair with the fingers, and then washed out with plenty of
tepid water, is very good. 3. Borax removes the dandruff quickly and perfectly,
but is apt to make the hair dry and stiff. 4. Ammonia, and all other alkalies,
should be avoided.

CARE OF THE FEET.

Warm Feet Essential to Health.—Unless the feet be kept warm the circulation of
the blood to the extremities is prevented, the whole system becomes deranged,
and fever of any kind becomes aggravated as a result. A distinguished medical
man declares that, as a result of many years' careful observation iu a large
practice in his profession, he believes a large part of the sickness prevalent
in any community is "nearly or remotely the result of cold feet."

How to Cure the Habit of Cold Feet.—The feet should be placed in a basin of
cold water every morning for a few seconds, just deep enough to cover the toes;
wipe dry, dress, and walk off. Once or twice a week the feet should be held in
water, made comfortably warm, for some ten minutes, adding hot water from time
to time, using a little soap ^ if at the end of this bathing at night the feet
were placed in a pan of cold water, toe-deep, for less than a quarter of a
minute, it would greatly aid in giving tone to the skin, vigor to the
circulation, and softness to the skin, and thus do much toward keeping them
comfortably warm.

A tablespoonful of chloride of lime in a basin of warm rater is an excellent
wash for removing foot odor.

How to Sleep with Warm Feet.—Before retiring to bed, especially in fire time of
year, hold both feet before a blazing fire, stockings removed, for ten minutes
at least, rubbing them with the hands all the time until they feel perfectly
dry and warm; such a process will warm the feet more effectually in five
minutes than can be done in an hour by holding them to the fire with stockings
and shoes on.

Waking up with Cold Feet.—Sometimes, without apparent cause, a person will
suddenly wake up to the knowledge that his feet are cold, and a disagreeable
sensation is caused which pervades the whole body, and the mind and temper
become fretful and morose. This is often the case in the very midst of summer.
When this is observed you are taking cold, and you should instantly treat the
feet to a blazing fire as named above. If this is not practicable, give them a
hot foot bath as just directed. In either case you will not only avert the
cold, but you will also experience a feeling of comfortableness which is
delightful. This same kind of bath is the speediest and most comfortable means
of warming the feet when they are found to be uncomfortably cold after coming
in from a walk, or a long day's work.

To Keep the Feet Dry.—Many ways have been devised for rendering the upper
leather of shoes impervious to water; a much bitter plan is to keep out of the
water, for whatever will keep water out will also keep the perspiration and ill
odor always in. To make leather impervious is to make it board-like, hard,
unyielding, and hot as fire of a summer's day; but if it be absolutely
necessary at any time to wear a shoe which shall exclude water, the application
of castor oil or petroleum with a brush, and then allow it to dry, is perhaps
the most familiar, accessible, and facile mode known.

Short and High-heeled Shoes.—Thousands of people lose their natural ease and
grace of motion, and become stiff and awkward walkers, simply from wearing
short-heeled shoes, and thereby losing their natural elasticity of step.
Another effect of flattening the arch of the foot is to increase its length,
and the foot is often lengthened in this way to the extent of half or
three-quarters of an inch. The matter is made still worse by wearing the heels
very high, and many a foot has been ruined by this pernicious practice. Short
and high-heeled shoes also readily permit the easy turning over of the ankle,
and many a strained and weakened ankle is the result of them.

Cause of Chilblains.—These are slight inflammations which occur on the toes and
fingers, and sometimes the nose and ears—generally in winter, and where a part
has been rapidly heated when it was very cold. They consist of red and swollen
patches, sometimes accompanied with blisters, and these, upon breaking, are apt
to become ulcerated, and to occasion much annoyance.

To Cure Chilblains.—In the simpler forms, some stimulating liniment, such as
equal parts of spirit of wine and vinegar, or spirit of camphor, will prove
sufficient to cure chilblains, but when ulcerations occur, some stronger remedy
will be found necessary.

One very good remedy is to place red-hot coals on a pan, throw a handful of
corn meal over them, and hold the suffering feet m the dense smoke.

Severe weather may produce a recurrence of the trouble at intervals, but
persistent use of this remedy will prevent it as well as cure it. It has been
known to effect very marked cures, where the persons were unusually exposed,
and when all other remedies were useless.

A foreign medical journal thinks the cause of chilblains is often due to
impoverishment of blood and a languid, weakly condition of the whole system not
to be met by any local remedy. Yet there are local applications which sometimes
afford relief, if a person can strike on the right one. Turpentine is to many a
great blessing. Glycerine is a good thing to rub into tie hands before washing
with castile soap and tepid water. Warm vinegar sometimes avails. Kid gloves,
lined with wool, are recommended, and, in general, care must be taken to keep
the hands and feet from wet and cold. The London Chemist recommends a lotion,
which should be used with some caution; liniment of belladonna two drams,
liniment of aconite one dram, carbolic acid ten drops, collodion one ounce, to
be painted over the surface with a brush. If the skin is broken, the aconite
should be left out. This will form a film or varnish which will keep the air
out.

How to Prevent and How to Remove Corns.—For prevention of corns use daily
friction of cold water between the toes. For their removal, the following
suggestions are given :—

1. Hard corns may be carefully picked out by the use of a small, sharppointed
scalpel or teuolomy knife, and if well done the cure is often radical, always
perfect for the time.

2. They may be equally successfully removed by wearing over them for a few days
a small plaster made by melting a piece of stick diachylon and dropping on a
piece of white silk. The corn gradually loosens from the adjacent healthy skin,
and can be readily pulled or picked out.

3. Soft corns require the use of astringents, such as alum dissolved in white
of egg, or the careful application of tincture of iodine.

4. A simple cure for both hard and soft corns, which rarely fails, is a
poultice of bread dipped in cider vinegar and applied every night until cured.

5. Lemon juice effects only a temporary cure, unless applied before the corn
has gained ground firmly.

6. A large cranberry or raisin split open and bound to the toe is very good.

I. The strongest acetic acid (vinegar) applied night and morning with a
camel-hair brush to either soft or hard corns, will remove them in one week's
time.

8. The heart of a potato boiled in its skin, placed on a corn and left there
for twelve hours will give temporary relisf.

9. Apply a good coat of gum-arabic mucilage over them every evening on going to
bed

10. Apply castor-oil, after paring closely, every night before going to bed.
This softens the corn, and it becomes as the other flesh.

II. Take a little-sweet oil, on getting up in the morning and before retiring
at night, and rub it on the corn with the tip of the finger, keeping the corn
well pared down. This relieves the friction, which causes corns, and will cure
them in a short time.

12. Apply with a brush morning and evening a drop of a solution of the
per-chloride of iron. After a fortnight's continued application, without pain,
a patient who had suffered martyrdom for nearly forty years, from a most

painful corn on the inner side of each little toe was entirely relieved. Pres'
«ure was no longer painful, and Dr. B. believed the cure radical. Two other
similar cases were equally successful.

13. After removing the stocking at night, with the nails of the thumb and
forefinger loosen the corn at the edges, and gradually peel it across until it
come9 off. This is done with entire ease when the toe is not inflamed and sore,
and if the corn hardens again in a few weeks, as it will be apt to, the process
is easily repeated. The main point is, don't pinch the feet with tight shoes.

14. Soak the feet well in warm water, then with a sharp instrument pare off as
much of the corn as can be done without pain, and bind up the part with a piece
of linen or muslin, thoroughly saturated with sperm oil, or, what is belter,
the oil which floats upon the surface of the pickle of herring or mackerel.
After three or four days the dressing may be removed, and the remaining cuticle
removed by scraping, when the new skin will be found of a soft and healthy
texture, and less liable to the formation of a new corn than before.

Cause of " Ingrowing Toe-nail."—This affection is of more consequence than is
usually supposed. It is sometimes a serious matter to the patient and causes
much pain. One principal cause comes from the fashion of wearing very
small-toed boots, and another from wearing much-darned stockings. It is .lot
usually the nail that is in fault, but the skin surrounding it. This becomes
thickened and ulcerated and gradually the nail becomes overlapped. The nail
then becomes bent and grows irregularly, but it is the highly sensitive skin
that gives the pain.

Remedies for Ingrowing Nail.—1. Mr. Wood, surgeon of King's College Hospital,
recommends broad-toed boots, also scraping the center of the nail thin with a
piece of glass. A plug of cotton under the edge of the nail will aid in
restoring it to proper shape and position.

2. A Liverpool physician has, for the past twenty years, employed compressed
sponge very successfully in the treatment of ingrowing nails. His method is to
render the sponge compact by wetting, and then tying it tightly until it is
thoroughly dry. A bit of the sponge, in size less than a grain of rice, is
placed under the nail, and secured by strips of adhesive plaster. In this way
the point of the nail is kept up from the toe until the surrounding soft parts
are restored to their normal condition by appropriate means. Of course there is
no pain in this remedy, and its application requires only ordinary skill.

3. It is stated that cauterization by hot tallow is an immediate cure for
ingrowing nails. Put a small piece of tallow in a spoon, and heat it over a
lamp until it becomes very hot, and drop two or three drops between nail and
granulations. The effect is almost magical. Pain and tenderness are at once
relieved, and in a few days the granulations all go, leaving the diseased parts
dry and destitute of all feeling, and the edge of the nail exposed, so as to
admit of being pared away without any inconvenience. The operation causes
little if any pain if the tallow is properly heated.

Remedy for Blistered. Feet.—On going to bed rub the feet with tallow, dropped
from a lighted tallow candle into the palm of the hand.

Bunions.—These may be checked when they first appear by binding the joint with
adhesive plaster and keeping it on until all indications of an enlargement
disappear. An inflamed bunion demands large shoes and a poultice. An ointment,
to be rubbed on gently twice or three times a day, may be made of iodine,
twelve grains, lard or spermaceti ointment, half an ounce

To Cure "Frosted Feet." — Warm some pine tar, and apply with a feather to the
affected part; heat it by the fire before going to bed. In very bad cases it
may need the second or third application. It is a sure cure, and the tar can
easily be removed with lard and soap.

Treatment of Scalded Feet.—When the legs and feet are scalded, they should be
plunged as soon as possible into cold water, and kept immersed in it a
considerable length of time before the stockings are removed. By this means
blisters are often prevented.

CARE OF THE SKIN. Use of the Skin.—The skin is not only a covering and a
protection for the body, but also the medium of perspiration. This perspiration
consists of ninety-nine parts of water and one part of solid matter. It is
called insensible because the vapor is not recognized by the senses, except
where its flow is excessive and interrupted, forming drops on the surface which
are called in common language, sweat. The daily exhalations through the skin
aggregate about an average weight of two pounds! The skin also possesses a
remarkable absorbing power, and to such a degree that substances may oe imbibed
through its pores as a medicine, or as a partial relief from thirst and hunger.
As an exhalant and absorbent the skin in its functions has been compared to the
lungs. Some writers on physiology describe it as "the third lung of the body."
By carefully-conducted experiments it has been found that the skin acts in the
same way as the lungs in absorbing cxygen from the air, and giving off carbonic
acid to an appreciable amount.*

*In some of the lower animals the skin plays a still more important part .
Frogs, foi Instance, deprived of their lungs, breathe with almost nndiminiched
activity, and oftetj Burvive for days, and snakes get their main supply of air
through the skin.

Color of the Skin.—Underneath the outer skin are minute cells containing the
particles of coloring matter. The particles are about 2 of an inch in diameter.
"In the varying tint of this coloring matter lies the difference of hue between
the blonde and the brunette, the European and the African. In the purest
complexion there is some of this pigment, which, however, disappears as the
fresh, round, soft cells of the cutis change into the old, flat, horny scales
of the cuticle. Scars are white, because this part of the cuticle is not
restored. The sun has a powerful effect upon the coloring matter, and so we
readily * tan' on exposure to its rays. If the ou.oi gathers in spots, it forms
freckles.*"

The Pores of the Skin.—These are fine tubes about of an inch in diameter, and a
quarter of an inch in length, which run through the cutis, and then coil up in
little balls. They are very numerous. In the palm of the hand there are about
2,800 in a single square inch. On the back of the neck and trunk, where they
are the fewest, there are yet 400 to the square inch. The entire number on the
body of an adult is estimated at about 2,500,000. The mouths of these pores may
be seen with a pocket lens along the fine ridges which cover the palm of the
hand. Through these pores the body throws off its excess of water and various
impurities from the blood, and imbibes oxygen and other substances with which
the skin comes into contact. \

* This action of the sun on the pigment of the skin is very marked. Even among
the Africans, the skin is observed to lose its intense black color in those who
live for many months in the shades of the forests. It is said that Asiatic and
African women confined within the walls of the harem, and thus secluded from
the sun, are as fair as Europeans. Among the Jews who have settled In Northern
Europe are many of light complexion, while those who live in India are as dark
as the Hindoos. The black pigment has been known to disappear during severe
Illness, and a lighter color to be developed In its place. Among1 the negroes
are sometimes found people who have no complexion, i. there is no coloring
matter in their skin, hair, or the iris of their eyes. These persons are called
Albinos.—Steele.

t Persons frequently poison their hands with the common wood-ivy. Contagious
diseases are caught by touching a patient, or even his clothing. Painters
absorb so much lead through the pores of their hands that they are attacked
with colic Snuff and lard are frequently rubbed on the chest of a child
suffering with the croup to produce vomiting, petmen In want of water drench
their clothing in salt spray, and the skin will absorb en. 'ft to quench thirst
.

On an occasion of great solemnity, Pope Leo X. caused a young child to be
completely covered with gold leaf, closely applied to the skin, so as to
represent, according to the idea of the age, the golden glory of an angel or
seraph. In a few hours after contributing to this pageant of pride the child
died; the cause being suffocation, from stopping the exhalations of the skin ;
although, in the Ignorance of the common people of those days, the death was of
course attributed to the anger of the Deity, and looked upon as a circumstance
of evil omen.

If one is called upon to handle a dead body, It is well, especially If the
person has died of ft contagious disease, to rub the hand with lard or
olive-oil. Poisonous matter has been

Seeping the Skin Clean.—In view of the nature and functions of the skin, the
great importance of keeping it clean and healthy is apparent. It should be one
of the chief themes in the list of our duties in caring for the health of the
body to keep its pores open. To this end the bath, clean bed-linen, and clean,
fresh clothing become not only a luxury but a necessity. The skin, so commonly
neglected claims, and should receive, the careful attention of parents and
instructors.

Diseases of the Skin—Warts.—Warts are over-grown papilla;.

1. They may be removed by the application of glacial acetic acid, or a drop of
nitric acid, repeated until the entire structure is softened. Care must be
taken not to let the acid touch the skin.

2. The easiest way to get rid of warts is to pare off the thickened skin which
covers it, cut it off by successive layers; shave it until the surface of the
skin is reached, and until blood is drawn in several places. Rub the part
thoroughly over with lunar caustic and the wart will generally disappear. If it
does not, cut off the black spot caused by the caustic, and apply it again.
Acetic acid may be used instead of caustic.

"Grafting the Skin."—A celebrated French physician (M. Reverdin) reported to
the Academy, as early as 1872, that he had for ten years been accustomed to
perform veritable transplantations of the skin. He did not sew over the small
granulations small pieces of skin, but he covered the whole with large flaps of
skin. The cure then takes place. The pieces of skin may be taken either from
the patient himself, or from other individuals. He took most of his grafts from
limbs amputated on account of accidents occurring to men otherwise healthy. In
some cases he had been obliged to take the pieces of skin from the patient
himself in order to do away with the pain of the operation. The experiment
proved the possibility of transplanting tissues which had been subjected to a
low temperature. At that period he demonstrated that pieces of periosteum first
frozen and then transplanted under the skin of another animal, could not only
retain life, but also produce osseous tissues. Before practicing cutaneous
transplantation he applied to the skin a freezing mixture composed of ice and
salt. When the skin was frozen, that is to say, when it was white, bloodless,
and insensible,

fatally absorbed through the breaking of the cuticle by a long nail or a simple
scratch. There is a story that Napoleon I., when a lieutenant of artillery, in
the heat of battle, seized the rammer and worked the gun of an artillery-man
who had fallen. From the wood which the soldier handled, Napoleon absorbed a
poison which gave him a skin-disease, by which he was annoyed the remainder of
his life.

Cosmetics, powders, hair-dyes, etc., are exceedingly injurious, not only
because they tend to nil the pores of the skin, but because they often contain
poisonous matters which are absorbed into the system.—Steele's Pitysiulooy.

he cut out pieces comprising the whole of the dermis, which, when transplanted
on the surface of a wound, became perfectly ingrafted.

Dr. Griffin, of Pavia, claims to have had great success by this operation in
several cases of extensive burns. The grafting pieces, six in number, were
solidly united after the third day, and on the twelfth the excoriations were
reduced to half their original surfaces.

Greased bandages, in place of adhesive strips, are preferable, as they can be
readily removed for cleansing without danger of dragging out the grafts.

The union of the grafts is aided by the condition of the wound, and the
thickness and extent of the graft. Pieces from two to four millimetres in
diameter unite most readily. It is very necessary to include part of the derma.

The edges of the wound should be slightly pared whenever union is effected;
suppuration diminishes, the granulations become larger, the condition of the
wound improves, and cicatrization is favored and accelerated.

Cutaneous grafting as shown by high authority:

1. In all wounds in full and uniform granulation when we wish to accelerate
healing.

2. In chronic wounds of old or cachetic persons; in varicose ulcers with
callous margins.

3. In those cases of extensive wounds where spontaneous cicatrization would be
attended with considerable retraction of the parts—burns.

4. In wounds of hard surfaces covered with skin only, as the front of the
tibia.

To Remove Warts.—Warts are not only very troublesome, but disfigure the hands.
They may be cured so as to leave no scar. 1. Take a small piece of raw beef,
steep it all night in vinegar, cut as much from it as will cover the wart, and
tie it on; or, if the excresence is on the forehead, fasten it on with strips
of plaster. It may be removed during the day, and put on every night. In one
fortnight the wart will die and peel off. The same prescription will cure
corns.

2. Apply the juice from the milk-weed (Asclepias cornuti) to the wart once, and
it will assume a chalky state, disappear, and not return.

3. Pass a pin through the wart; apply one end of the pin to the flame of a
lamp; hold it there until the wart fries under the action of the heat. A wart
so treated will leave.

4. If the wart is hard, a good method is to cut it off with a knife or
scissors, and apply a little caustic to the roots.

5. If the wart has a narrow neck, tie a silk thread or horse-hair around it,
and it will soon drop off. A little caustic applied to the roots will prevent
it from growing again.

Chapped Lips and Hands 1. A good salve may be made in this way:

Take two ounces of white wax, one ounce of spermaceti, four ounces of oil of
almonds, two ounces of English honey, quarter of an ounce of essence of
bergamot, or any other perfume. Melt the wax and spermaceti; then add the
honey, and melt all together, and when hot add the almond oil by degrees,
stirring it till cold. This is superior to glycerine for chapped hands,
sunburns, or any roughness on the skin.

2. The following is a well-tested, excellent remedy for chapped hands and sores
of this nature: Put together equal weights of fresh, unsalted butter, tallow,
beeswax, and stoned raisins; simmer until the raisins are done to a crisp, but
not burned. Strain, and pour into cups to cool. Rub the hands thoroughly with
it, and though they will smart at first, they will soon feel comfortable and
heal quickly.

Freckles.—1. For the benefit of young persons afflicted with freckles, we would
inform them that powdered nitre, moistened with water, applied to the face
night and morning, will soon remove all traces of them.

2. A French journal recommends the following: Take naphthaline, ten parts;
biphenate of soda, one part; tincture of benzoin, cologne, each two thousand
parts. Mix. A tablespoonful of this is to be added to a glass of cold water,
four to eight fluid ounces, and the face then bathed with it every night and
morning.

3. Apply a lotion of Vichy water for two or three minutes, night and morning.
The skin should be allowed to dry without wiping it.

Tan and Sunburn.—Ladies who have spent the summer in the country and at the
seaside, may be glad to know of some simple remedies for tan and sunburn. When
the face is burnt by exposure, it is best to bathe it with a little cold cream;
this simple and pleasant wash will remove the discoloration and swelling as if
by magic, and leave the skin cool and smooth. To prevent tan and sunburn, take
the juice of a fresh lemon and rub it in thoroughly before going into the open
air, allowing it to dry on the face; at night dust a little oatmeal upon the
skin, and next morning, after washing it off, apply a little cold cream or
buttermilk. Such a simple and harmless treatment will be found much more
effectual than the use of cosmetics, which close up the pores, and dry and
roughen the finest complexion in a frightful way and in a short space of time.

Cause and Cure of Moles. — A low tone of the blood, with a torpid liver, often
cause the appearance of moles. The best remedy is to be found in an invigorated
circulation. This will cleanse and renew the skin.

Pimples and Sores.—Sores and pimples show that the skin does not act its normal
part in throwing off the effete matter or waste of the system; its pores having
become clogged, different forms of illness result—fevers, colds, rheumatism,
etc. Sores and pimples show congestion in the part where they are situated; and
the breaking out, which constitutes a sore, is an effort on the part of nature
to relieve the system of corrupt material. The best remedy is to cleanse the
blood and the skin.

BATHING AND HEALTH.

Bathing in Ancient Times.—In the early ages among all the leading nations of
the East, bathing was one of the most flourishing institutions. The baths were
celebrated for their magnificence. They often formed parts of buildings of vast
extent and grandeur, termed Gymnasia, and were large enough to accommodate
several thousand persons at the same time. In these baths was centered all that
was elaborate in workmanship, elegant in design, and beautiful in art. Nothing
was thought too grand or magnificent for their decoration. Precious gems and
metals, and the finest works of the painter and sculptor, were to be found
within their walls. The great hall of the bath was generally ornamented with
the statues of Hercules, the god of strength, Kygeia, the goddess of health,
and ^Esculapius, the god of medicine.

The Object of the Ancient Bath.—The chief, and ever-guiding purpose of the bath
was to give health and strength to the physical system, and thus make
accomplished warriors. The bath was not merely for luxury or pleasure. It bore
an important part of the imperatively-enjoined system of thorough training for
the future. In modern times the people, during their leisure hours, patronize
places of amusement; in the ancient times those hours were largely devoted to
the baths and the gymnasia. These were very properly fostered by the national
authorities, as the "tribute money" of the people was wisely made to cover
their support.

The Bath a Public Benefit.—A great bath in every town in the country, sustained
at the public expense, and under capable and accredited supervision, would be
of inestimable hygienic value tc the people at large. The benefit of thorough
bathing would not only be felt in our families, but in business, in our
legislative halls, and throughout society generally. Physiology and Hygiene are
subjects foreign to the great masses of our people. The rich as well as the
poor are ignorant of them. They are thought to be only fit subjects for
doctors, and fortunate it is for the profession that they thiuk Bo for a large
part of their revenue is derived from the ignorance of the people on these
subjects. One of the greatest hygienic influences we can bring to bear upon the
public health and the advancement of our physical condition, is cleanliness. To
be poor is no disgrace; to be unclean is a shame and a crime. If we allow the
skin to become filthy, its proper action is interfered with, thereby affecting
the whole system, and often causing dangerous disease.

Fresh and Salt Water Bathing.—Salt water is a stimulant to the skin, and in
many cases ia to be preferred for the bath. It is, however, more exhaustive to
the system, and special care should be taken in its use by invalids that it
should not be prolonged or severe. The sea water is found by experiment to be
milder than salt water artificially prepared, and to possess tonic properties
superior to the latter.

Bathing at the Sea-side.—The sea-side resort for bathing has its special
advantages. The shore and beach are more likely to be free from all products of
decay. This does not exist in towns where the populations are massed, nor cai.
we have it in the streams in the country where marshes and forced or neglected
vegetation, and various other circumstances, often upset the equilibrium which
Nature has so beautifully established between production and decay. "Ah!" said
one, "I love the sea, for there is no dust there." That seems really an
adequate reason. "When we find," says another, "dust to mean millions of
invisible particles, some of which represent life unfavorable to human life, or
decay in too concentrated a form, we readily rejoice that on the sea and close
by the sea we may be rid of many a dust-mote of disease."

Tonic Value of Sea-side Air.—In connection with sea-side bathing there is value
in another sense. In the air by the sea-shore carbonic acid and gaseous
impurities are almost entirely absent, while the chlorides of the sea seem to
impart to the air especial tonic properties. It is bracing, not merely in
sensation, but in an actual sense. It seems as if the lungs were enabled to
take in more oxygen, and with it more of those slight stimulants which seaair
contains. Under this influence the system is aroused to greater activity, and
the effete products of the blood are more fully consumed. Then there is more
active assimilation and construction to make up for this lawful destruction. It
has been well said that this "is the kind of blood-purifier that does not need
a patent, and has a real significance."

A Caution in Sea-side Bathing.—" We love this air of the sea," writes a
correspondent, "and taken aright, which one soon learns, it is a tonic to drink
in with exquisite delight. That does not mean that an invalid should face an
ocean storm, or that he should ever allow himself to get chilly; for, though
cold is often healthful, real chilliness never is. To be borne at all, it must
be very temporary. If you do not know how to breathe, and forget that the nose
is the chimney, and rush to the sea with the mouth wide open and a yell, you
may get as hoarse as the waves, and be the shorn lamb to which the wind will
not be tempered. But, if only very briefly, you will adjust yourself to the
changed air, avoid at first the dampness of morning or evening, and have
changes of clothing ready to adjust to changes of temperature, it is not
difficult to avoid contingencies, and to get the full vigor of the ocean life."

Peril at Crowded Sea-side Resorts.—A great danger has arisen at some of the
attractive localities opened for the convenience of bathers. This danger has
come from the large crowds of people which gather there, and the close contact
of residences and other buildings, the lack of good drainage, and of waste
removal, and of the consequent befoulment of the air. Wheru this danger exists,
the visits of the bathers should be of brief duration. No one can afford to
breathe, even for a night, an atmosphere polluted by the excreta of a crowded
population where there is a deficiency of good drainage.

Season for Sea-Bathing.—In the middle Atlantic States the bathing season
extends from the middle of June to the middle of September. Farther north the
season is shorter, and farther south longer. In the middle States, if there are
no indications of unhealthfulness of the place, the season may be safely
extended from four to six weeks later.

Duration of the Sea Bath.—On this head much ignorance prevails, and much damage
to health and needless delays in the cure of disease are caused by such
ignorance. Very many persons, especially of the younger class, stay in the
water until they are tired, and are often surprised that they should pay the
tax for their rashness in subsequent suffering from some one or more of the
following disorders, namely: Defective reaction, as shown by paleness of the
skin, blueness of the lips, sleeplessness, loss of appetite, rheumatic pains,
headache, bronchitis in those with a delicate chest, earache, fullness of the
head, giddiness, and various spasmodic affections. From the same cause arises
disturbed digestion, manifested by pains of the stomach, nausea, and diarrhcea.

Proper Limitation of Sea-Bathing.—The allowable range is far short of that in
common practice. It ought to be from a single immersion, plunge, or dip, to a
bath of a quarter of an hour's duration. We refer now in a more particular
manner to invalids. Nervous women, long affected with disease, and depressed by
other causes, ought not to take more than one or two, or, at the most, three
immersions. Children of a tender age, and of a lymphatic constitution, should
not remain longer in the water than from one minute to three minutes. Equally
restricted should be the period allowed to very young girls and young women who
are subject to cough, and shooting pains through the breast and shoulders; and
so on, in graduating scale, for other classes of invalids.

Those who have palsy of the lower limbs bear, and even require, a bath of
twenty, and even twenty-five minutes, alternating with a douche or spout bath
over the spine. Invalids in this class, aud strong subjects, who are sufferers
from nervous pains of a rheumatic character, bear two baths daily, namely, in
the morning and in the evening.

Plunge-Bathing.—The practice of plunging head foremost into the watel is not to
be commended. Some of the kinds of headache attributed to bathing originate, in
reality, from this precipitate kind of immersion. Only the strong should
practice it.

Surf-Bathing.—This kind of sea-bathing is a luxury to those who are strong and
vigorous. An eminent physician, however, expresses the opinion that the high
surf which many seek, is more harmful than helpful to a majority of those who
indulge in it. A low or gentle surf is to be preferred. We strongly recommend
the erection of strong iuclosures in the surf in such manner as to permit the
free ebb and flow of the tide, and yet break the force of the surf wave. Such
enclosures in time of the heavy surf would be exceedingly serviceable to a
large proportion of sea-side bathers.

Best Hour of the Day for Bathing.—A rule of the most general, if not universal,
application is, that the bath should be taken before a meal, and never on a
full stomach, or during the first stages of digestion. By general consent, a
morning hour is preferred for sea-bathing. Comparatively few, however, choose
the time before breakfast for the purpose. Invalids with a cold skin and
languid circulation will require a slight refreshment—a cup of good chocolate,
a plate of plain soup, or a soft-boiled egg with a roll—before bathing. If an
early or noon-day dinner be taken, an evening bath may be used with advantage,
and in some cases it is found to agree better with invalids than in the
morning.

For the most part, bathing at the watering places in the United States is
undoubtedly begun too soon after breakfast, certainly before the digestion of
the meal in the stomach ia half completed. As a general rule, we are safe in
directing invalids to bathe before breakfast, if they rise with a warm and even
hot skin, and reach the water before they can be said to have lost the warmth
of the bed, or after they have been put in a glow by exercise.

Condition of the Body Before Bathing.—To persons who awake in a perspiration,
or whose skin at the time is moist with sweat, bathing under such circumstances
would be injurious. The rule is, to bathe when the skin is warm, or hot and
dry, and not when it is chilled or perspiring. Reaction and glow will follow in
the first case; chilliness and headache, and pains in the limbs will be no
uncommon result in the last. Great exhaustion after fatiguing exercises forbids
the use of the sea to the same extent as the fresh water bath; and hence there
is danger in rushing immediately into the sea after a long and fatiguing
jouruey.

Helpful Accessories to Bathing.—Exercise—In most cases the benefit of the bath
would be considerably increased if followed by light and instant exercise.
Walking in the open air at such a time is to be preferred. This keeps up the
glow obtained by the thorough towel rubbing of the body in

dressing, and extends the benefit of such glow to the internal organs of the
body.

Avoid Exposure.—Avoid chilling the body by sitting or standing undressed on the
banks or in boats, after having been in the water, or remaining too long in the
water, but leave the water immediately there is the slightest feeling of
chilliness.

Bathing In-doors This should be frequent and thorough. The bathroom should be
an essential part of every dwelling. Every person should use it for "health's
sake" once a week, at least. In many cases twice a week would be still better,
and in some cases a daily bath would be useful. When taken frequently, it
should be used only for a few minutes.

Benefit of a "Towel Bath."—A thorough rubbing daily, first with a coarse and
then with a soft towel, immediately after the morning wash, is always
healthful, provided it can be done without chilliness or exhaustion of the
strength. Continue the towel exercise until the body is thoroughly dry, and
until the glow of the skin becomes assured.

Temperature of Baths.—The cold bath is a tonic, and must be used with caution.
The tepid and warm bath is slightly tonic and sedative, and induces sleep. It
should generally be taken immediately before retiring. Hot baths are
debilitating when used for any length of time. It is very rarely beneficial to
take hot baths unless they are followed at once by a cold shower-bath to tone
down the system.

It is the custom of many persons to have a cold water bath immediately on
leaving their beds as a daily habit. Nevertheless, but few persons know how to
use cold water judiciously for bathing purposes. Delicately-organized ladies
frequently have established the same course, considering it conducive to
health. There is an impression that it invigorates the individual, hardens the
muscles, and strengthens the constitution. The sudden abstraction of caloric or
vital warmth in that way has not only injured but destroyed more than were ever
benefited thereby. The reaction, as it is called, a glow of warmth that
subsequently follows, is a direct draft upon the system to meet a sudden loss
of vitality, and is by no means so beneficial as theoretically imagined. A
tepid bath makes no such injurious demands, and therefore it is not so
injurious or perilous for those of a frail structure.

The Best Bath for Children.—We have no hesitation in recommending a warm bath
early in the day, followed by a simple douche of cold water, as far preferable
to the cold bath; or a warm bath at night for the sake of cleanliness, and none
at all in the morning. It may be taken as a rule that, in the case of children,
sudden changes of temperature are dangerous, and that 58 degrees to 60 degrees
may be taken as the safe average temperature in which they sh»uld be constantly
kept.

Turkish and Russian Baths.—The only difference between Turkish and Russian
baths is, that in the former the bather is first submitted to hot air, and in
the latter to hot vapor. The processes of shampooing, showering, plunging,
rubbing, and kneading, are the same in both. In both baths the bather reclines
for some time, until he is thrown by the hot air or vapor into a profuse
perspiration. He is then rubbed by an attendant, and afterward receives a
shower or douche of cold water. The duration of the bath depends upon the
constitution and habits of the bather, and may be two minutes or two hours.
These baths are of excellent service in rheumatism, neuralgia, and various
nervous conditions, aside from their general cleansing an 1 invigorating
qualities.

Medicated Baths.—The alkaline bath is especially efficient in curing itching
and other diseases of the skin, and is made by putting eight ounces of impure
carbonate of potash into thirty gallons of tepid water.

The nitro-muriatic bath is for diseases of the liver, and is composed of two
ounces of nitric acid, three ounces of muriatic acid, and ten and a half
gallons of water.

Convenient Vapor Baths.—Simple and convenient vapor baths may be made by
placing a large pan or pail containing boiling water under a canebottom chair.
The patient seats himself upon it, enveloped from head to foot in a blanket,
which covers the bath as well. Sulphur, spirit, herbal, and other baths, may be
obtained in the same manner. They should not be taken unless prescribed by a
physician.

Electric Baths In these baths electricity is diffused through the water

of the bath-tub. Special advantages arise from the improved method of applying
electricity in the treatment of disease, over the more ordinary methods. The
friends of this system argue that water, at blooil temperature, is a better
conductor of electricity than the human body; hence the diffusion of the
electric current through the water, and to the whole periphery of the body,
intensifies and insures more certain results. Moreover, they claim its
influence thus conditioned, in promoting the absorption of medicines dissolved
in the water, and its power "through chemical affinity, to facilitate the
elimination from the body of certain metallic substances, and to further the
absorption of morbid deposits." A number of cases are related in support of the
theories advanced, and a category of diseases given deemed to be especially
amenable tr this kind of treatment.

Hot Sand Baths.—One of the most attractive therapeutical novelties for some
lime past in London—recently introduced from the Continent—consists in the
erection of establishments for administering hot sand baths as a remedy for
rheumatism, recent cases of nervous disorders, affections of the kidneys, and
all cases where heat is needed as the chief remedial agent. The advantages
claimed in behalf of this method of treatment are, that it does not suppress
respiration, like the hot water bath, but rather increases it, and does not
interfere with the respiration, after the manner of the steam bath or Turkish
bath. It is found that the body can endure the influence of this kind of bath
for a much longer time, and a much higher temperature can be applied.

Bathing Dresses.—A bathing dress for the summer is almost as much a sine qua
non as a morning dress, for few ladies like to subject themselves to lhe
chances of such as can be hired from the proprietors of bathing-houses; while
for those who spend the summer near salt water the cost of the material would
be absorbed in a very few days. There is no doubt that the less cumbersome the
clothing the more beneficial the bath, and ladies who are fortunate in having
private bathing places will find a flannel dress, made with a loose blouse
waist and short closed drawers, very nearly perfection; but for the ordinary
bather, who has to take her chances with many others, there is no better design
than the one which serves also as a gymnastic suit, and consists of a sailor
blouse, skirt and trousers. The skirt is plain in front, and there is no more
fullness in either blouse or skirt than is necessary to its good appearance.
The amount of material required for this entire suit is little less than lune
yards. Twilled flannel, dark blue or Russian gray, is the most serviceable
material for bathing dresses, as it does not chill or hold the water. White,
black, or red braids are the usual trimmings, put on broad and in clusters, or
simply as bindings, according to taste.

Twenty-two Brief Hints to Bathers.—In the preceding paragraphs we indicated the
principles and methods which should govern the habit of bathing. We now subjoin
a summary of directions to bathers, which are condensed from an admirable work
by Dr. R. M. Trail:

1. Never bathe soon after eating.

2. A full bath should not be taken less than three hours after a full meal.

3. Do not take any cold bath when in a state of chilliness or fatigue.

4. Always have the feet comfortably warmed, by fire, hot water, or exercise, at
the time of taking any cold bath.

5. If inclined to headache, wet the head with cool water before bathing. C.
Never drink cold water just before bathing.

7. Do not eat soon after bathing. An hour should elapse after a full bath, and
half an hour after a local bath before taking the meal.

8. Local baths, as hip, foot, etc., may be taken an hour after a light, and two
hours after a full meal.

9. Patients who are able should exercise before and after bathing.

10. If not able to exercise, and inclined to chilliness, they should cover up
in bed for an hour after bathing.

11. No strong shock, by means of the shower or douche, should be made on the
head.

12. After bathing do not sit in a draught of cold air, nor allow the feet to
become cold.

13. Avoid all very cold or very hot baths in all cases of great debility, local
congestions, or determinations of blood to particular parts; also all processes
which disturb the circulation, as shower, douche, and plunge baths.

14. Great heat of the body is no objection to any form or kind of bath,
providing the respiration is not disturbed, nor the patient in a state of
fatigue.

15. When two or more baths are administered daily the principal and coldest one
should be taken in the fore part of the day.

16. All full baths, except the warm, are better in the morning or forenoon than
in the afternoon or evening.

17. When baths are taken regularly every day, they should be omitted
occasionally, as one day in a week, or two or three days in a month.

18. Whenever the patient feels dependent on any particular form of bath, and
persists that he cannot do without it, some other should be substituted for a
few days.

19. Patients should never take a bath so cold that fatiguing exercise is
necessary to "get up reaction." The better way is to use water of a milder
temperature.

20. Very feeble persons should have the water for all bathing purposes at
nearly the neutral temperature, which is ninety degrees, varying but a few
degrees above or below.

21. Pleasurable sensations for the time are no evidence that the bath is
useful. Very cold or very hot baths may be succeeded by agreeable feelings, but
be very wasteful of vitality.

22. The temperat ire of the bathing-room should always be comfortably warmed
and well vei tilated. For invalids the temperature should be seventy to eighty
degrees.

SLEEP AND HEALTH.

Sleep a Necessity.—Sleep is a necessity. Without it we would suffer speedy
dissolution. Every act that we perform, every movement we make, ev ery thought
that passes through our minds, every emotion that stirs our souls, breaks down
a certain amount of nervous tissue, and leaves us weaker than before. These
broken cells can be repaired during sleep only. The system, exhausted by
physical and mental labor during the day, must be built up and strengthened for
the next day's work during the dark, still hours of night, while the senses are
locked in slumber, and the mind and muscles are all relaxed; for at no other
time is this process of building up carried on.

What Sleep will Cure.—The cry for rest has always been louder than the cry for
food. Not that it is more important, but it is often harder to get. The best
rest comes from sound sleep. Of two men or women, otherwise equal, the one who
sleeps the best will be the most devotional, healthy, and efficient. Sleep will
do much to cure irritability of temper, peevishness, uneasiness. It will cure
insanity. It will build up and make strong a weary body. It will do much to
cure dyspepsia, particularly that variety known as nervous dyspepsia. It will
relieve the languor and prostration felt by consumptives. It will cure
hypochondria. It will cure the headache. It will cure neuralgia. It will help
cure a broken spirit. It will help cure sorrow.

How We Go to Sleep.—The muscles which move the arms and legs usually become
relaxed before those which maintain the body in an erect position. In relation
to the.social senses, that of sight is the first lost, the eyelids forming a
barrier between the retina and the external world; but, independently of
eyelids, if they had been removed by the surgeon, or could not be closed by
disease, this is still the first sense whose function is abolished. Some
animals, as the hare, do not shut their eyes when asleep; and in cases of
somnambulism, the eyes remain open, although the sense of sight is temporarily
abolished, and their aeuteness is much lessened.

Taste is the next to disappear, and then smell; hearing follows, and touch is
the most persistent of the senses. So, conversely, a person is most easily
awakened by the sense of touch; next in order by sounds, and then by smell.

Position During Sleep.—The recumbent position has much to do with sleep.
Undoubtedly sleep may occur in the sitting posture, and even while standing;
but these cases are exceptional. It is certain, also, that sleep in bed is
generally sounder with a low pillow than with a high one. If, therefore, there
be a state of wakefulness at night, the head should be kept low; if, on the
contrary, there is undue sleepiness, the head should be kept high. The degree
of sleep, and its amount, may be regulated by simply taking care that the head
is in the right position. If prolonged recumbency is a necessary part of the
treatment, the tendency to sleep too much during the day and too little at
night may be thus corrected.

Why High Pillows are Injurious.—It is often a question among people who are
unacquainted with anatomy and physiology, whether lying with head exalted or on
a level with the body is the more unwholesome. Most, consulting their own case
on this point, argue in favor of that which they prefer. Now, although many
delight in bolstering up their heads at night, and sleep soundly without
injury, yet it is a dangerous habit. The vessels iu which the blood passes from
the heart to the head are always lessened iu their cavities

when the head is resting in bed higher than the body; therefore, in all
diseases attended with fever the head should be pretty nearly on a level with
the body; and people ought to accustom themselves to sleep thus and avoid
danger.

Sleeping on the Back or Side, Which?—It is not best to sleep mtinly on the
back, but it is well to alternate, and sleep occasionally on either side, not
always on the right, nor always on the left, but on both. The right side is
better of the two sides to lie upon for any length of time, as it leaves the
action of the heart free, and precludes the probability of undue pressure on
any of the large blood-vessels; but generally the body may be allowed to select
its own position.

Evil Effects of Sleeping Exclusively on One Side.—The questbn is often put to
physicians, "Why is my head lop-sided or larger on one side?" It may be
accounted for by always lying on one side. Young mothers are apt to place the
child always in one position when putting it to bed, and the skull being soft
and thin, the brain grows" most on the under side, and finally assumes
permanently this irregular and uneven shape. In cholera times, or when the
bowels are cold, constipated, and inactive, it is well to lie on the breast,
and thus keep the bowels warm.

Amount of Sleep Necessary.—It is impossible to lay down rules regulating the
amount of sleep necessary for each individual; some persons need much more than
others. The amount necessary depends much upon the age, health, temperament,
and climate.

Testimony of an Experienced Parmer.—Said one of the oldest and most successful
farmers in this country: "I do not care to have my men get up before five or
half-past five in the morning, and if they go to bed early and can sleep
soundly, they will do more work than if they got up at four or half-past four.
We do not believe in the eight-hour law, but nevertheless are inclined to think
that, as a general rule, we work too many hours on the farm. The best man we
ever had to dig ditches seldom worked, when digging by the rod, more than nine
hours a day. And it is so in chopping wood by the cord; the men who accomplish
the most work the fewest hours. They bring all their brain and muscle into
exercise and make every blow tell. A slow, plodding Dutchman may turn a
grindstone or a fanning-mill better than an energetic Yankee, but this kind of
work is now mostly done by horsepower, and the farmer needs above all else a
clear head, with all his faculties of mind and muscle light and active, and
under complete control. Much, of course, depends on temperament; but as a rule
such men need sound sleep and plenty of it.*

• When a boy on the farm I was told that Napoleon needed only four hours'
sleep, and the old nonsense of "fivo hours for a man, six hours for a woman,
and sevou hours for

Waking Children.—We caution parents particularly not to allow their children to
be waked up in the mornings; let nature wake them up; she will not do it
prematurely; but have a care that they go to bed at an early hour; let it be
earlier and earlier, until it is found that they wake up themselves in full
time to dress for breakfast. Being waked up early and allowed to engage in
difficult or any studies late, and just before retiring, has given many a
beautiful and promising child brain fever, or determined ordinary ailments to
the production of water on the brain. Infants cannot sleep too long, and it is
a favorable symptom when they enjoy a calm and long-continued rest. They should
never be awakened, and thus deprived of the greatest support nature has given
them.

Best Hours for Sleeping.—Sleep obtained two hours before midnight, when the
negative forces are in operation, is the rest which most recuperates the
system, giving brightness to the eye and a glow to the cheek. The difference in
the appearance of a person who habitually retires at ten o'clock and that of
one who sits up until twelve, is quite remarkable. The tone of the system, so
evident in the complexion, the clearness and sparkle of the eye, and the
softness of the lines of the features, is, in a person of health, kept at
"concert pitch" by taking regular rest two hours before twelve o'clock, and
thereby obtaining the "beauty sleep" of the night. There is a heaviness of the
eye, a sallowness of the skin, and an absence of that glow in the face which
renders it fresh in expression and round in appearance, that readily
distinguishes the person who keeps late hours.

Kiss the Children a "Happy Good Night."—If we go to sleep in a happy frame of
mind it will help much toward a refreshing slumber. A cheerful "good night" and
an affectionate kiss (if there is sufficient spontaneity about it to make it
worth any thing) are decidedly healthful for the little ones. Never scold or
give lectures, or in any way wound a child's feelings as it goes to bed. Let
all banish business and worldly care at bed-time, and let sleep come to a mind
at peace with God and all the world.

The Great Pleasure of Sleep.—Let us all cherish the thought of our approach to
sleep, of which some unknown writer has beautifully said: "It is a delicious
moment: the feeling that we are safe, that we shall drop gently to sleep. The
good is to come, not past. The limbs have been just tired

fool," is often quoted, but the truth is, that Napoleon was enabled, in a great
measure, to accomplish what he did from the faculty of sleeping soundly—of
sleeping when he slept and working when he worked. His favorite traveling
carriages were Bo arranged that he contd iie down at full length, and when
dashing through tho country as fast as eight horses, frequently changed, could
carry him, he slept soundly, and when he arrived at his destination was as
fresh as if he had risen from a bed of down. Let farmers, and especially
farmers' boys, have plenty to eat, nothing to "drink," and all tho sleep they
can take.—AmerU can Agriculturist.

enough to render the remaining in one position delightful, and the labor of the
day ia done. A gentle failing of the perceptions comes slowly creeping over us;
the consciousness disengages itself more and more with slow and hushing
degrees, like a fond mother detaching her hand from that of her sleeping child;
the mind seems to have a balmy lid closed, closed altogether, and the
mysterious spirit of sleep has gone to take its airy rounds."

"Sleeping Alone."—It is not well to place a very young person in the same bed
with a very old one, as the younger in such a case will suffer by a loss of
vitality and heat. One in a bed is better than two, especially wher there is a
great contrast in age.

Are Feather-beds Unhealthy ?—Feathers make a very unhealthy bed, because they
retain the heat and keep the temperature of the body too high, thus
debilitating the skin and rendering the system liable to contract colds; they
also retain the moisture and waste matter thrown out by the lymphatic, which is
absorbed, producing disease. A dry straw bed, or, what is better, a hair
mattress, should be used.

In what Direction Shall the Bed Stand ?—Sleeping-rooms should always be so
arranged, if possible, as to allow the head of the sleeper to be turned toward
the north. Frequently, in cases of sickness, a person will find it impossible
to obtain rest if his head is in any other direction, and often a cure is
retarded for a long time. This arrangement for the sleeper puts him in harmony
with the electrical currents caused by the motion of the earth on its axis. Try
this and see.

Sleep for the Invalid.—An eminent English physician says that a large allowance
of sleep to the invalid is possessed of eminent sanitary advantages. "Nothing,"
he remarks, "is equal to eight or nine hours of undisturbed repose. Take it
through the night, or partially through the day and night, but secure enough,
and the beneficial effects will not fail to show themselves." lu one portion of
his essay he adds a hint specially for city invalids: "Go to bed by nine
o'clock and sleep till six or seven. Do not sit up till ten or eleven and rise
at five, for if you do, no dieting or exercise can supply the » aste of the
system."

Lack of Sleep Causes Leanness.—Dr. Dio Lewis puts the following suggestive
incident on record:—

A very thin young lady of about twenty years, with a friend, came to consult me
about her " skin and bones." I had frequently met her when she seemed even more
emaciated, but now she "would give the world to be plump." Sitting down in
front of me, she began with:—

"Don't you think, doctor, that I look very old for twenty?"

I admitted that she looked rather old for twenty.

"Can any thing be done for me? What can I do? I would be willing to take a
hundred bottles of the worst stuff in the world if I could only get some fat on
these bones. A friend of mine (her beau) was saying yesterday that he would
give a fortune to see me round and plump."

"Would you be willing to go to the Cliff Springs in Arkansas?"

"I would start to-morrow."

"But the waters are very bad to drink," I said.

"I don't care how bad they are; I know I can drink them."

"I asked you whether you were willing to go to the Arkansas Springs to test the
strength of your purpose. It is not necessary to leave your home. Nine people
out of ten can become reasonably plump without such a sacrifice."

"Why, doctor, I am delighted to hear it; but I suppose it is a lot of some
bitter stuff."

"Yes, it is a pretty bitter dose, and has to be taken every night."

"I don't care; I would take it if it was twice as bad. What is it? What is the
name of it?"

"The technical name of the stuff is Bedibut Ntneo'clockihts."

"Why, doctor, what an awful name! I am sure I will never be able to speak it.
Is there no common English word for it?"

"O, yes. The English for it is, 'You must be in bed every night at nine
o'clock.'"

"O, that is dreadful! I thought it was something I could take." "It is. You
must take your bed every night before the clock strikes nine." "No; but what I
thought was that you would give me something in a bottle to take."

"Of course I know very well what you thought. That's the way with all of you."

One person eats enormously of rich food till his stomach and liver refuse to
budge; then he cries out, "O, doctor, what can I take? I must take something."

Another fills his system with tobacco until his nerves are ruined, and then,
trembling and full of horrors, he exclaims, "O, doctor, what shall I take?" I
write a prescription put for him—Quitibus Chawibus et Smokibus.

I will suppose my patient is not a classical scholar, as I am sure my reader
is, and so I translate it for him into English. He cries out at once:—

"O, doctor, I thought you would give me something to take."

Another sits up till thirteen or fourteen o'clock, leads a life of theaters and
other dissipations, becomes pale, dyspeptic, and wretched, and then flies to
the doctor, and cries, "O, doctor, what shall I take? What shall I take?"

"Now, madam, you are distressed because your lover has been looking at your
skin and bones.''

"But, doctor, you arc entirely—" ,

"0 well, we'll say nothing about him, then. But tell me, what time do jou go to
bed?"' "Generally about twelve o'clock."

"Yes, I thought so. Now, if you will go to bed every night for six months at
nine o'clock, without making any change in your habits, you will gain ten
pounds in weight and look five years younger. Your skin will become fresh, and
your spirits improve wonderfully."

"I'll do it. Though, of course, when I have company and during the opera I
can't do it."

It is regularity that does the business. To sit up till 12 o'clock 'hiie nights
in the week, and then get to bed at 9 o'clock four nights, one might think
would do very well, and that at any rate it would be "so far so good." I don't
think this every other night early and every other night late, is much better
than every night late. It is regularity that is vital in the case. Even sitting
up one night in the week deranges the nervous system for the whole week. I have
sometimes thought that those people who sit up till 11 or 12 o'clock every
night get on quite as well as those who turn in early six nights and then sit
up once a week till midnight.

Regularity in sleep is every bit as important as regularity in food.

At length my patient exclaimed, "Doctor, I will go to bed every night for six
months before nine o'clock if it kills me, or rather if it breaks the hearts of
all my friends."

She did it. Twenty-one pounds was the gain in five months. Her spirits were
happily enlivened, and she spent half her time in telling her friends of her
delight with the new habit. She had no further cause to complain of skin and
bones, and she had the special gratification of appearing more attractive in
the eyes of her lover.

Sleeplessness—How to Prevent It.—Sleep is a powerful antidote to a long list of
nervous ailments. Sleeplessness is an evil which should be removed without
delay. The following are among the good rules which, if observed, will usually
bring relief to those afflicted with chronic sleeplessness:

1. A good clean bed.

2. Sufficient exercise to produce weariness, and pleasant occupation. 8. Good
air and not too warm a room.

4. Freedom from too much care.

5. A clear stomach.

6. A clear conscience.

1. Avoidance of stimulants and narcotics.

Sleeplessness—How to Cure It.—Nervous persons, who are troubled with
wakefulness and excitability, usually have a strong tendency of blood to the
brain, with cold extremities. The pressure of blood on the braiu keeps it in a
stimulated or wakeful state, and the pulsations in the head ar«

often painful. Let such persons note the following suggestions, which are
collected from various sources:

Rise and chafe the body and extremities with a crash towel, or rub' smartly
with the hands to promote circulation, and withdraw the excessive amount of
blood from the brain, and sleep will follow in a few minutes.

A cold bath, or a sponge bath and rubbing, or a good run, or a rapid walk i in
the open air, or going up and down stairs a few times just before retiring,
will aid in equalizing circulation and promoting sleep.

Wet half a towel, apply it to the back of the neck, pressing it up toward the
base of the brain, and fasten the dry half of the towel over so as to prevent
the too-rapid exhalation. The effect is prompt and charming, cooling the brain
and inducing calmer, sweeter sleep than any narcotic. Warm water may be used,
though most persons will prefer it cold. To those suffering from
over-excitement of the brain, whether the result of brain-work or of pressing
anxiety, this simple remedy is an especial boon.

Sometimes any mental exercise which concentrates the mind on one subject will
bring relief.

Playing a game of skill, such as checkers or chess, demonstrating a difficult
proposition in geometry, or solving an arithmetical or algebraical problem, has
often led to this mental condition, and been followed by a good sleep, which
otherwise seemed impossible.

One of the very best methods of "courting sleep " is that of counting. Breathe
deeply and slowly (without any straining effort) and with every respiration
count one, two, three, etc., up to a hundred. Some persons will be asleep
before they count fifty in this manner. Others will count ten, twenty, or
thirty, and then forget themselves and cease counting. In such cases always
commence again at one. Very few persons can count one hundred and find
themselves awake; but should this happen repeat the dose until cured. Counting
in some other language, as German or Latin, is very good.

If sleepless at night on account of the heat, try the effect of warm water upon
the feet. If that does not give relief, try the virtues of a warm bath, but not
often, as its frequent use debilitates.

An Eminent Clergyman's Advice.—Dr. Alexander was often heard to say in
substance as follows: "Clergymen, authors, teachers, and other men of
reflective habits, lose much health by losing sleep, and this because they
carry their trains of thought to bed with them. The best thing one can do is
take care of the last half hour before retiring. Devotions being ended,
something may be done to quiet the strings of the harp, which otherwise would
go on to vibrate. Let me commend to you this maxim, which I somewhere learned
from Dr. Watts, who says that in his boyhood he received it from the lips of
Dr. John Owen—a very good pedigree for a maxim: Break the chain of thoughts at
bed-time by something at once serious and agreeable. By all means break the
continuity, or sleep will be vexed, if not driven away. If you wish to know my
method, it is to turn over the pages of my English Bible, alighting on a
passage here, a passage there, backward and forward without plan, and without
allowing my mind to fasten on any, leaving any place the moment it ceases to
interest me. Some tranquilizing word often becomes a divine blessing of peace.
'He giveth his beloved sleep.'"

Slumber at Will.—The following is given in " Blinn's Anatomy of Sleep; or, the
Art of Procuring Sound and Refreshing Slumber at Will," published m London in
1842. The principal feature of Blinn's system is for the patient to fix his
attention on his own breathing. "He must depict to himself that he sees the
breath passing from his nostrils in a continuous stream, and the very instant
that he brings his mind to conceive this, apart from all other ideas,
consciousness and memory depart; imagination slumbers, fancy becomes dormant,
thought subdued; the sentient faculties lose their susceptibility, the vital or
ganglionic system assumes sovereignty—and he no longer wakes, but sleeps."

Sleep Procured by Medicine is rarely as beneficial as that secured naturally.
The disturbance to the nervous system is often sufficient to counterbalance all
the good results. The habit of seeking sleep in this way, without the advice of
a physician, is to be deprecated. The dose must be constantly increased to
produce the effect, and thus great injury may be caused. Often, too, where
laudanum or morphine is used, the person unconsciously comes into a terrible
and fatal bondage. Especially should infants never be dosed with cordials, as
is the common family practice. The damage done to helpless childhood by the
ignorant and reckless use of soothing-syrups is frightful to contemplate.

"A PiUow for the Sleepless."—A friend once told me, says Rev. H. Woodward,
that, among other symptoms of high nervous excitement, he had been painfully
harassed for the want of sleep. To such a degree had this proceeded, that if in
the course of the day any occasion led him to his bedchamber, the sight of his
bed made him shudder at the idea of the wretched and restless hours he had to
pass upon it.

In this case it was recommended to him to endeavor, when he laid down at night,
to fix his mind on something at the same time vast and simple—such as the wide
ocean, or the cloudless vault of heaven; that the little hurried and disturbed
images that flitted before his mind might be charmed away, or hushed to rest,
by the calming influences of one absorbing thought.

Though not at all a religious man at the time, this advice suggested to his
mind that if an object, at once vast and simple, was to be selected for
meditation, nothing could serve his purpose so well as the thought of God. He
resolved to make the trial and think of him. The result exceeded his most
sanguine hopes; in thinking of God he fell asleep. Night after night he
resorted to the same expedient. The process became delightful; so much so that
he used to long for the usual hour for retiring, that he might fall asleep, as
he termed it, in God. AV'hat began as a mere physical operation, grew by
imperceptible degrees into a gracious influence. The same God who was his
repose by night was in all his thoughts by day, and at the time this person
spoke to me, God, as revealed in the Gospel of his Son, was "all his salvation
and all his desire." So various are the means and inscrutable the ways by which
God can "fetch home the banished."

Sleeping Hints.—Sleep is the best known form of rest, and yet it is only
partial, for scarcely any part of the body is completely at rest. The heart
beats, the blood courses, the lungs and skin are active.

In sleep the volume of blood in the brain is diminished. Remedies which
diminish the amount of blood in the brain (as bromide of potassium) are
promotive of sleep.

Sleep is a good thermometer of health. Whatever improves the sleep of an
invalid betters his condition.

Sleep with the mouth shut. Will to do it and persevere, and you will succeed.

Wash the body before sleeping, especially after a day of dust or sweating.

Exhalations through the skin are more abundant while asleep than when awake;
therefore the bed should be well aired before it is made up.

In youth more sleep is needed than in old age, when nature makes few permanent
repairs, and is content with temporary expedients. In general, one should sleep
until he naturally wakes.

"I have nothing to say about feather beds," says a recent writer. "None of our
family like them; but I would willingly provide one for an elderly person to
whom habit had made it seem a necessity."

Short Sleepers.—Lord Brougham, and many other great statesmen and lawyers,
contented themselves with a remarkably small quantity of sleep. Frederick the
Great slept only five hours out of every twenty-four; John Hunter, five hours;
General Elliot, the hero of Gibraltar, four hours; the Duke of Wellington, in
some of his campaigns, less than four hours; Wesley, six hours. The brevity of
their sleep did not prevent their enjoyment of good health, nor their living to
a good old age.

Living Without Sleep.—Five young men in Berlin lately m idean agreement, for a
wager, to see who of them could keep awake for a whole week. They all held out
for about five days and a half by drinking largely of strong coffee, and
keeping up a constant round of active exercises and exciting amusements. At the
end of that time two of them yielded to drowsiness; a third soon fell asleep
while riding, tumbled from his saddle, and broke his arm; a fourth was attacked
by severe sickness, and compelled to retire from the list; the fifth held out
to the end, but lost twenty-five pounds of flesh in wiiuiing the wager. Long
ago, Frederick the Great and Voltaire made a similar experiment, making use of
the same stimulant of strong coffee, but they did not succeed in driving away
sleep for more than four days. "Tired nature" obstinately refuses to accept of
any substitute for her "sweet restorer."

Curious Cases of Long Sleeping.—In the middle of the last century a young
Frenchwoman, at Toulouse, had, for half a year, fits of lengthened sleep,
varying from three to thirteen days each. About the same time a girl, at
Newcastle-on-Tyne, slept fourteen weeks without waking, and the wakmg process
occupied three days to complete.

Dr. Blanchet, of Paris, mentions the case of a lady who slept for twenty days
together, when she was about eighteen years of age, fifty when she was about
twenty, and had nearly a whole year's sleep, from Easter Sunday, 18C2, till
March, 1863. During this long sleep (which physicians call hysteric coma) she
was fed with milk and soup, one of her front teeth being extracted to obtain an
opening into her mouth.

Stow, in his "Chronicles," tells us that "The 27th of April, 1546, being
Tuesdaie in Easter weeke, W. Foxley, pot maker for the Mint in the Tower of
London, fell asleep, and so continued sleeping, and could not be waked with
pricking, cramping, or otherwise, till the first day of the next term, which
was full fourteen dayes and fifteen nights. The causes of his thus sleeping
could not be knowne, tho' the same were diligentlie searched for by the king's
physicians and other learned men ; yea, the king himself examined ye said W.
Foxley, who was in all points found at his waking to be as if he had slept but
one night."

Soft or Hard Beds, Which?—On this question there are wide differences of
opinion, some persons advocating soft, and others hard beds. The difference
between them is, that the weight of a body on a soft bed presses on a larger
surface than upon a hard bed, and consequently more comfort is enjoyed. Hard
beds should never be given to little children, and parents who suppose that
such beds contribute to health by hardening and developing the constitution,
are surely in error. Eminent physicians—both here and in England—concur in this
opinion, and state that hard beds have often proved injurious to the shape of
infants. Birds and animals cover their offspring with the softest materials
they can obtain, and also make soft beds for them; and the softness of a bed is
not evidence of its being unwholesome But if it is not kept sweet and clean by
daily airings and frequent beatings—v hcther it is hard or soft—it is surely
injurious to health.

Warm or Cold Sleeping-Rooms, Which 1—There is an old notion, and a foolish one,
that it is better to sleep in a cold room than in a moderately warm one. Given
good ventilation, and a fire in a sleeping-room in cold weather is healthy.
There is no gain in the chilliness of dressing and undressing in a temperature
near the freezing point, but the shock to the system is positively injurious.
Cold bed-chambers always imperil health, and invite fatal diseases. Robust
persons may safely sleep in a temperature of forty or under, but the old, the
infantile, and the frail, should never sleep in a room where the atmosphere is
much under fifty degrees Fahrenheit.

Thorough Ventilation of Sleeping-Rooms All persons spend more

time in their sleeping-rooms than in any other room in the house. As a rule
about one-third of human life is thus spent. The sleeping-room, therefore,
should be the best aired, the most comfortable, and in all other respects the
ni( "Tt healthful room. Ample ventilation is needed at all hours; but especial
attention should be paid to ventilation during sleep. There is no danger in
having a sleeping apartment well ventilated, provided one sleeps warm, being
well protected by an abundance of blankets.

Time Required for Airing the Beds. — The desire of an energetic housekeeper to
have her work done at an early hour in the morning, causes her to leave one of
the most important items of neatness undone. The most effectual purifying of
bed and bed-clothes cannot take place if the proper time is not allowed for the
free circulation of pure air to remove all human impurities which have
collected during the hours of slumber. At least two or three hours should be
allowed for the complete removal of atoms of insensible perspiration which are
absorbed by the bed. Every day this airing should be done; and occasionally
bedding constantly used should be carried into the open air, and when
practicable, left exposed to the sun and wind for half a day.

Dreaming and Somnambulism.—Those cases in which the brain is hard at work
during sleep instead of being totally oblivious of every thing, may be called
dreaming or somnambulism, according to the mode in which the activity displays
itself. Many of them are full of interest. Some men have done really hard
mental work while asleep. Condorcet finished a train of calculations in his
sleep which had much puzzled him during the day. In 1756 a collegian noticed
the peculiarities of a fellow-student who was rather stupid than otherwise,
during his waking hours, but who got through some excellent -work in geometry
and algebra during sleep. Coleridge composed Kubla Kahn while asleep.

The Cause of Nightmare.—Nightmare is caused by remaining so long in one
position that the blood ceases to circulate. How hard we try to run iu our
sleep, sometimes, to get out of the way of some terrible danger! It

does such a person no good to ask what's the matter. Don't waste time in asking
a question, but give relief to the sleeper by an instantaneous shake, or even a
touch of the body, which breaks the dreadful spell in an instant, because it
sets the blood going toward the heart.

Snoring, and How to Stop It.—Not long since, John A. Wyeth, M.D., described in
the Popular Science Monthly* a novel invention for stopping snoring. We give
the description in his own words:—

To those unacquainted with the mysterious parlance of the anatomist, the use of
strictly scientific terms might prove discouraging and fail to interest. 1
shall, therefore, discard the scientific in favor of the every-day phrases, in
explanation of the following figure (1) which, it will be observed, represents

a human head split from above downward through the central line.

Through the only two channels in which the air travels in going to the lungs,
namely, through the nose and mouth, are drawn two arrows, a and b. These two
passages unite in a common cavity at f, and from that point there is but one
tube leading to the lungs.

At c is a bone called t he hard palate, which forms the roof of the mouth and
the floor of the nose, separatmg these two air-channels from each other. At the
inner or posterior end of the bone, c, is seen a little body, d, called the
soft palate, made of muscle and covered with a delicate skin. This soft palate 
is attached at one end to c, the hard palate; the other end hangs loose, and
moves or flaps in the act of breathing, something like a window-curtain when
acted upon by a current of air. This is its condition while we are asleep or
awake, though during sleep it lacks in tonicity, being much more relaxed, or
flabby, than when we are awake. At e is represented the tongue.

Now, in order to snore, one must keep the mouth open, as well as the nose, and
in this condition the two currents of air, a and b, passing in and out together
during the acts of breathing, catch this little curtain, d, between them,

[graphic]

* The article was subsequently published alsp lu Vie Christian Advocate, IJew
YorH.

and throw it into rapid vibration. This vibration, more or less intense and
sonorous, is what we call snoring.

It is only with the mouth open that snoring can be accomplished during sleep.'
Awake, if the nose is closed by the thumb and finger, by taking a forcible
breath, it is possible to snore, and the same result may be accomplished with
the mouth shut and the nose open; but the muscular effort necessary to its
accomplishment is more than we can command during sleep, and would wake up the
individual who might unconsciously make the effort.

If the mouth be closed, (the natural condition during slumber,) but one current
of air will pass to and from the lungs. This current, pressing about equally
upon all sides of the canal indicated at a, will press the soft palate, d, 
forward and downward until it is applied to the tongue, e, and will hold it
there gently, thus preventing any sonorous vibration.

It follows that any device which prevents the lower jaw from dropping down
during the relaxation of sleep, and opening the mouth, will shut out the one
unnatural current of air and prevent snoring.

I have devised the apparatus represented in Fig. 2, which consists of a simple
cap, a, fitting the head snugly; a cap of soft material, b, fitting the chin;
and a piece of elastic webbing, c, tacked to the chin-piece, and to the
head-cap near the ears. The webbing can be made more or less tense as may be re
tta. 2. quired to effect the closure of the mouth.

The apparatus is so simple that any one can make it; and the write] hopes this
explanation will recommend itself to those individuals who, from the possession
of this unfortunate habit, are a nuisance to every body—ex cepting themselves.

Are Plants in Sleeping-Rooms Injurious?—Dr. J. C. Draper, in a paper in the
Galaxy, furnishes a very clear and able discussion in reference to this
question. We condense and quote:—

Plants Give out Carbonic Acid During the Night.—" Though the air is dependent
for the renewal of its oxygen on the action of the green leaves of plants, it
must not be forgotten that it is only in the presence and under the stimulus of
light that these organisms decompose carbonic acid. All plants, irrespective of
their kind or nature, absorb oxygen and exhale carbonic acid in the dark. The
quantity of noxious gas thus eliminated is, however, exceedingly small when
compared with the oxygen throwH out during the day. When they are flowering,
plants exhale carbonic acid in considerable quantity, and, at the same time,
evolve heat. In this condition, therefore, they resemble animals as regards
their relation to the air; and a number of plants placed in a room would, under
these circumstances, tend to vitiate the air." . .

[graphic]

Flowering Plants more Injurious than Others.—" While the phanerogamia, or
flowering plants, depend on the air almost entirely for their supply of carbon,
and are busy during the day in restoring to it the oxygen that has been removed
by animals, many of the Inferior cryptogamia, as the fungi and parasitic
plants, obtain their nourishment from material that has already been organized.
They do not absorb carbonic acid, but on the contrary they act like animals,
absorbing oxygen and exhaling carbonic acid at all times. It is, therefore,
evident that their presence in a room cannot be productive of good results."

Plants Exhale Other Noxious Substances.—" Aside from the highly deleterious
action that plants may exert on the atmosphere of a sleepingroom, by increasing
the proportion of carbonic acid during the night, there is another and more
important objection to be urged against their presence in such apartments. Like
animals, they exhale peculiar volatile organic principles which, in many
instances, render them unfit for the purposes of respiration. Even in the days
of Andronicus this fact was recognized, for he says, in speaking of Arabia
Felix, that 'by reason of myrrh, frankincense, and hot spices there growing,
the air was so obnoxious to their brains that the very inhabitants at some
times cannot avoid its influence.' What the influence on the brains of the
inhabitants may have been does not at present interest us; we have only quoted
the statement to show that long ago the emanations from plants were regarded as
having an influence on the condition of the air; and, in view of our present
ignorance, it would be wise to banish them from our sleeping apartments, at
least until we are better informed regarding their true properties."

Sleep and Death.—As men grow to be about fifty years old, especially if of
sedentary habits, the feeling on rising in the morning is as if they had' not
gotten sleep enough, not as much as they used to have, and as if they would
like to have more, but they cannot get it. They look upon a healthy child
sleeping soundly with a feeling of envy. But it is curious to observe that
there is a bliss to all in the act of going to sleep, a bliss we become
cognizant of only when we happen to be aroused just as we are falling into
sound sleep; and there are strong physiological reasons to suppose that this
state is a counterpart of that great event that is to come upon all, the act of
dying. In fact, those who have in rare cases been brought back to life when on
the verge of death, and in several cases those who have been recovered

from drowning, and other modes of strangulation or simple smothering, called
"asphyxia" by physicians, the expressions have been, on coming to
consciousness, "How delicious! Why did you not let me go?" An eminent man thus
brought back represented that the last-remembered sensations of which he was
conscious were as if he were listening to the most ravishing strains of music.

CLOTHING AND HEALTH.

The Most Healthy Clothing.—The most healthful clothing for our climate, the
year round, is that made of wool. If worn next the skin by all classes, in
summer as well as winter, an incalculable amount of coughs, colds, diarrhoea,
dysenteries, and fevers would be prevented, as also many sudden and premature
deaths from croup, diphtheria, and lung diseases. Winter maladies would be
prevented by the ability of a woolen garment to keep the natural heat about the
body more perfectly, instead of conveying it away as fast as generated, as
linen and flaxen garments do, as also cotton and silk, although these are less
coolmg than Irish linen, as any one can prove by noticing the different degrees
of coldness on the application of a surface of six inches square of flannel,
cotton, and linen to the skin the moment the clothing is removed. The reason
is, that wool is a bad conductor of heat. *

Flannel in Summer as well as Winter.—The incalculable benefit of wearing
flannel next the body, in summer as well as winter, cannot be estimated.
Flannel is not so uncomfortable in warm weather as many believe. Frequent colds
and coughs are almost unknown when flannels are worn. Some women object to them
because they are bulky about the waist. This objection can be obviated by
shaping them in tight sack fashion, or cutting them out like waists and
buttoning them behind. The sudden and frequent changes of our climate are
scarcely felt, and certainly do very little injury to those persons who wear
flannels constantly. Above all, mothers should clothe the tender bodies of
their little ones with under-garmeuts of this material. Warmth is almost as
necessary to healthful development as food, and parents should endeavor to
clothe their children so as to secure the greatest amount for them.

Best Color for Clothing.—In an article upon "The Clothing We Wear," Dr.
Nichols, of the Boston Journal of Chemistry, says: "The color of clothing is by
no means a matter of indifference. White and light-colored clothes reflect the
heat, while black and dark-colored ones absorb it. White is the comfortable and
fashionable color for clothing in summer. It reflects heat

[ocr errors]

well, and prevents the sun's rays from passing through and heating the body. If
white is the best color for summer, it does not follow that black is the best
for winter. It must be remembered that black radiates heat with great rapidity.
Give a'coat of white paint to a black steam radiator, which is capable of
rendering a room comfortably warm at all times, and the temperature will fall
at once, though the heat-producing agency remains the same as before. A black
garment robs the body of a larger amount of heat than white, and consequently
the latter color is the best for winter garments. It is the best color for both
summer and winter. Although this statement may seem like blowing hot and cold,
it is nevertheless true. Let those who are troubled with cold feet, and who
wear dark stockings, change to white, and see if the difficulty is not in part
or wholly removed."

The Texture of Clothing should not be Close.—For all seasons the more porous
the clothing is, the better. Porous clothes will give ready escape to the
perspiration and a free admission of air to the skin. For this reason woolens,
which excel in that quality, should be worn constantly.

Evil of Insufficient Clothing.— One of the great evils induced by fashion is
the unequal distribution of clothing upon the person. One part over-clothed,
and another not half clad, is a very common condition, especially among women
and children. Women are governed by fashion, children are governed by women,
and it is the great resource of fashion to produce new effects by piling on the
textures, now here and now there, and by leaving other parts exposed. If the
declared purpose were to induce disease, no surer or more effectual way could
be found to do it than this. The derangement of the circulation is direct and
immediate; its healthy equilibrium is destroyed, the thinly-dressed parts lose
their blood to the more vascular, and internal derangements give rise to
various chronic bodily ailments.

Evil of Low-Necked Dress.—The fashion of wearing low-neck dresses on certain
occasions, thus leaving the neck and the upper part of the chest bare, is
fraught with evil consequence. It would be less objectionable in countries
uniformly warm; but that our daughters, here in the frigid and changeable
climate, should expose to the chilling winds a vital part of the body, is one
of the evils of fashion which should be discountenanced by every mother, and
father, and brother. Of the unseemliness and reckless immodesty often connected
with this exposure, it is not necessary to speak in this discussion. *

High-Heeled Boots and Shoes.—Says the Journal of Chemistry: "Wa shall not
quarrel with the little jaunty hats of the ladies, for they are indeed

•A lady in New York has just died from consumption prodnced by a cold which shs
caught by crossing to and from the different hotels at Saratoga, in the
evening, in thin satin slippers and low-necked evening dress, and nothing over
her shoulders.

pretty, and no harm results from them, as of all parts of the body the head
needs the least clothing. But, to pass to the other extremity, we have to say
that the detestable high heels to boots and shoes, running, as they do, almost
to a point, are spoiling the gait and ruining the ankle-joints of children and
young misses. V?e are careful to order our shoemakers to remove such heels from
shoes before permitting them to be brought into our dwelling. Heels of moderate
height and good breadth are of great service in elevating the feet, so as to
avoid direct contact with moist earth, and they also give support and add
firmness to the step. Why should Fashion push good devices to absurd extremes 1
We must aid in dethroning the tyrant when her decrees lead to the physical or
moral injury of the race."

Newspapers as Protectors from Cold.—A newspaper, folded several times and laid
across the chest during a cold walk or ride, is a most excellent protector. If
the bed-clothing is not sufficiently warm, especially at hotels, two or three
large newspapers spread on the bed between the blankets will secure a
comfortable night, as far as cold is concerned. A thin shawl may ue made warm
by folding a paper inside it. The paper is impervious to the /rind and cold air
from outside, and prevents the rapid escape of the warm air from beneath it. If
you suffer from cold feet on a journey, fold a piece of newspaper over your
stockings; this is better than rubbers.

Warm Clothing for the Feet.—The lower limbs, especially the feet, should be
warmly clothed, both in winter and summer. The fashion that rules otherwise is
cruel and deadly. An eminent physician estimates the number who die from
ailments induced directly or indirectly from the insufficient clothing of the
legs and feet, at nearly one-third of the cases of mortality on record 1

Frequent Change of Clothing for the Feet.—On no account should this be
neglected. Concerning this subject the Scientific American very truly says:
"Many are careless in the keeping of the feet. If they wash them once a week
they think they are doing well. They do not consider that the largest pores of
the system are located in the bottom of the foot, and that the most offensive
matter is discharged through the pores. They wear stockings from the beginning
to the end of the week without change, which become completely saturated with
offensive matter. Ill-health is generated by such treatment of the feet. The
pores are not repellants, but absorbents, and this fetid matter, to a greater
or less extent, is taken back into the system. The feet should be washed every
day with pure water only, as well as the arm-pits, from which an offensive odor
is also emitted, unless daily allution is practiced. Stockings should not be
worn more than a day or two at a time. They may be worn one day, and then aired
and sunned and worn another day, if necessary."

How to Wear Under-Clothing.—All under-clothing should be suspended from the
shoulders, in order to relieve the waist, and it is needless to say corsets
should be abandoned. To do this, the two principal articles should be joined,
forming a garment something like children's night-drawers, but fitting closer
to the body. The petticoats and skirts should be hung from the shoulders by
straps made of muslin, or other light material.

Bad Effects from Using "Garters." — One of the most frequent and flagrant
causes of obstruction in the circulation is the ordinary elastic garter.
Children should never wear them at all, as the stockings can be perfectly well
kept up by attachment of elastic straps to the waistband. If garters are worn,
it is important to know how to apply them with the least risk of harm; at the
bend of the knee the superficial veins of the leg unite, and go deeply into the
under part of the thigh beneath the ham-string tendons. Thus a ligature below
the knee obstructs all the superficial veins, but if the constriction is above,
the ham-string tendons keep the pressure off the veins which return the blood
from the legs; unfortunately, most people, in ignorance of the above facts,
apply the garter below the knee. Elastic bands are the most injurious. They
follow the movements of the muscles, and never relax their pressure upon the
veins. Non-elastic bands, during muscular exertion, become considerably relaxed
at intervals, and allow a freer circulation of the blood.

Muffling the Throat.—There is nothing that makes the throat delicate and
sensitive more than muffling it closely in wraps of woolen and fur. The rule
is, that the neck should be kept as cool as comfort will allow.

Tight collars frequently cause diseases of the throat and lungs. The neck
should be dressed lightly. From the many movements which are made by the larynx
in speaking, it is inferred that it is a matter of great importance that the
neck in health should be always loosely dressed. Tight cravats are sure to
obstruct the proper function of this organ, and bring on irritation, which may
lead to bronchitis or consumption. An eminent physician, who devotes his whole
attention jto the throat and lungs, says that about three fonrlhi of all throat
diseases would get well by wearing very loose collars, and no neck-tie at all.
He also adds: "If you have a disease of the throat, let nature do the curing,
and the physician just as little as possible."

Remove Wet Clothing. — Some one inquires, "What shall be done when caught in a
shower?" We answer: Put on dry clothing as soon as possible. "Why?" Because
damp clothes rapidly chill the surface of the body, the heat being carried off
by evaporation. "Suppose your clothes have been wet for some time?" Then give
the body a thorough rubbing with a eoar»c towel at the time of changing the
clothes.

Poisonous Clothing—Gloves.—A recent London journal describes the case of a lady
whose hands were covered with very irritable blisters. Upon investigation it
was found that sh^ had purchased a pair of new silk gloves, and that after
wearing them a short time these blisters appeared, and had troubled her ever
since. She wore the left glove more than the right, and the left hand was
consequently more affected than the right. The gloves were of spun eilk, dyed a
light brown color—the dye apparently being an aniline dye of coal-tar origin.
The use of articles so dyed is dangerous.

Other Cases of Glove Poisoning.—Several English and German papers now before us
call special attention to dangerous gloves. In one of them a writer describes
the poisonous effect of a pair of the fashionable "bronzegreen" silk gloves,
when worn by a member of his family. After wearing them a day or two, the
patient was attacked with a peculiar blistering and swelling of both hands,
which increased to such an extent that for two or three weeks she was compelled
to carry her hands in a sling, suffering acute pain, and being, of course,
unable either to feed or dress herself. Inquiries among the writer's friends
discovered three other ladies similarly afflicted. A German medical journal
reports a case of very serious poisoning by a pair of navy-blue kids.

Poisonous Socks.—A clergyman in New York recently purchased a half dozen pair
of white cotton socks, having on the top two or three "rounds'' of red yarn.
After wearing a pair for a couple of days, he found that both legs were
poisoned in the parts touched by the red tops of the socks; and, although the
red-top socks were discarded, he suffered for three months, a part of the time
severely, from the effects of the poison which had been imbibed into the blood.
Indeed, the case required very careful treatment by a skillful physician. In
the Museum of the College of Surgeons, London, are preserved some brightly-dyed
children's socks, which gave rise to a similar affection on the feet of a
child.

Other Poisonous Clothing.—Dress goods, of woolen, silk, and cotton, have been
found to contain arsenic in dangerous quantities; so, also, gentlemen's
underclothing, hat linings, and the linings of boots and shoes. Professor
Nichols, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, reports the examination
of a lady's dress which contained eight grains of arsenic to the square foot.
In Troy, New York, lately, the death of a child was attributed to arsenic
sucked from a veil which had been thrown over the child's crib to keep off
flies.

How to Avoid Such Poisoning.—Use all possible precaution in the purchase of
clothing. Buy only of respectable dealers. There are a multitude of shops
throughout the country, and especially in the large cities, where goods urc
exposed for sale by irresponsible and reckless persons, who rare nothing for
the health of their customers or for the public good. Shun such shops. Shun,
also, most of the vagrant, itinerant, and strange pedlars, who carry such goods
from house to house, whether in the city or country. Their goods, as a rule,
have been purchased at cheap and villainous auctions, and are often positively
dangerous to the health of those who use them.

How to Cure Such Poisoning On the first appearing of such poison,

throw off the garment, and either destroy it or submit it to a thorough
renovation, by boiling, before wearing again. Use at once the recognized
remedies to neutralize the poison in the system. For these, see chapter on
"Poisons." If need be, consult your physician without delay.

How to Protect the Public from Such Clothing.—The Scientific American, in an
article referring to the great extent of the villainous traffic above
described, says: "At this rate, it will soon become necessary to test for
arsenic all goods purchased before venturing to wear them; or else the label,
'warranted to contain no poisonous dye,' will have to be adopted by all honest
and reliable makers. Hitherto, we believe, the retail dealer has not been held
legally responsible for damage done in this way. We do not know that he can be,
except on the charge of dispensing poisons without a license. Evidently,
however, something should be done to put a stop to the rapidlyincreasing evil.
If the obnoxious tints cannot be secured safely as well as cheaply, then they
ought to be prohibited, and another process of dyeing made imperative. Our
young chemists will find a fruitful field for the exercise of their inventive
powers in the production of the needed dyes."

Injurious Dress of Many School-girls.—A gifted female writer in an article in
one of our educational journals, discussing the prospects of the success of
girls in our public schools and seminaries, says: "By means of corsets, band,
or belt, her liver is divided into an upper and a lower section; the one forced
up, to crowd the heart, lungs, and stomach; the other down, to find room as it
can, where there is no room for it. Every vital organ is displaced or cramped.
Blockades are established by tight shoes, tight gloves, tight garters, tight
corsets, or, still more murderous tight skirt-bands; and there the blood must
run, by extra force of pumping, every time it passes from the heart to the
extremities or back. ... To study in such a costume is to burn the candle at
both ends—but the spirit of the age is upon her; the ages to co ne press or.
her; study she must, and die she must."

How Fashionable Dress Interferes with Education.—A student at the Michigan
University having remarked that men have more endurance than women, a lady
present answered that she would like to see the thirteen hundred young men in
the University laced up in steel-ribbed corsets, with hoops, heavy skirts,
trails, high heels, paniers, chignons, and dozens of hair-pins sticking in
their scalps, cooped up in the house, year after year, with no exhilarating
exercise, no hopes, aims, or ambitions in life, and see if they could stand it
as well as the girls. Nothing, said she, but the fact that women, like cats,
have nine lives, enables them to survive the present regime to which custom
dooms the sex.

An Increasing Demand for Healthy Clothing.—As a result of better instruction on
the general subject above discussed, public opinion seems to be setting in in
favor of strong and healthy girls. Pale faces are not thought so interesting
nowadays as they used to be. A sneer goes round at the inefficiency of the
feeble women who work for a living and ask for good wages. Young men ridicule
the idea of tying themselves for life to the sickly girls who exhibit loads of
expensive dry-goods upon their persons along the sidewalks, and they begin to
praise openly rosy cheeks and stout figures. Indeed, it seems as though the
pale and weak young ladies, who, if they were of no practical use in the world,
were at least admired and praised as interesting on account of their pallor and
languor, were going to have a pretty hard time of it now. But how are women to
become healthy? A long stride toward the desired end will be made by wearing
proper clothing.

The Tyranny of Fashion.'—A lady of extensive and intelligent observation, tells
the story of the tyranny of fashion, and of the evil results of fashionable
dress: "Fashion kills more women than toil and sorrow. Obedience to fashion is
a greater transgression of the laws of woman's nature, a greater injury to her
physical and mental constitution, than the hardships of poverty and neglect.
The slave-woman at her task will live and grow old, and see two or three
generations of her mistresses fade and pass away. The washer-woman, with scarce
a ray of hope to cheer her in her toils, will live to see her fashionable
sisters die all around her. The kitchen-maid is hearty and strong, when her
lady has to be nursed like a sick baby.

"It is a sad truth that fashion-pampered women are almost worthless for all the
good ends of human life. They have but little force of character; they have
still less power of moral will, and quite as little physical energy. They live
for no great purpose in life; they accomplish no worthy ones. They are only
doll-forms in the hands of milliners and servants, to be dressed and fed. They
dress nobody, they feed nobody, they instruct nobody, they bless nobody. They
write no books; they set no example of virtue and womanly life. If they rear
children, the latter are left to the care of servants and nurses. And when
reared what are the children? What do they ever amount to but weak scions of
the old stock? Who ever heard of a fashionable woman's child exhibiting any
virtue or power of mind for which it became eminent? Read the biographies of
our great and good men. Not one of them had a fashionable mother. They nearly
all sprang from strong-minded women, who had as little to do with fashion as
the changing clouds."

TIGHT LACING AND HEALTH-IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.

Physical Effects of Tight-pressing Garments.—-The free and easy expansion of
the chest is obviously indispensable to the full play and dilatation of the
lungs; whatever impedes it, either in dress or in position, is prejudicial to
health, and on the other hand, whatever favors the free expansion of the chest
equally promotes the healthy fulfillment of the respiratory functions. Stays,
corsets, and tight waistbands rjperate most injurioutly, by compressing the
thoracic cavity, and impeding the due dilatation of the lungs, and in many
instances they give rise to consumption. I have seen one case in which the
liver was actually indented by the excessive pressure, and longcontinued bad
health and ultimate death was the result.*

Effect on Respiration.—Referring to this subject, a writer states that men can
exhale at one effort from six to ten pints of air, whereas in women the average
is only from two to four pints. In ten females, free from disease, whom he
examined, about the age of eighteen, the quantity of air thrown out averaged
three and a half pints, while in young men of the same age he found it to
amount to six pints. Some allowance is to be made for natural differences in
the two sexes, but enough remains to show a great diminution of capacity in the
female, which can be ascribed to no other cause than the use of stays.

Effect on Size.—The organs on which growth depends, namely, the lungs, stomach,
and liver, are reduced by the corset to half the natural size and activity.
These two causes, with living in the shade, explain the alarming decrease in
the size of American women, f

Investigations by Herbst Dr. Herbst, of Gottingen, has lately been

performing some curious experiments in relation to the quantity of air that is
breathed. Now, a person of any understanding will appreciate from them the
comfort of full and unrestrained breathing. Dr. Herbst says that a middle-sized
man, twenty years old, after a natural expiration or emission of air, inspired
or took in eighty cubic inches when dressed, and one hundred and sixty when his
tight dress was loosed. After a full dilatation of the chest, he inhaled one
hundred and twenty-six inches when dressed, and one hundred and eighty-six when
undressed. Another young man, aged twenty-one, after a natural expiration, took
in fifty when dressed, and ninetysix when undressed. Had Dr. Herbst made his
observations on some of the ladies who carry the use of the corset to extremes,
we apprehend he would have obtained results of a nature really alarming.

High Medical Testimony.—A report sent out by the leading medical

[merged small][ocr errors]

association of Great Britain, bears the following testimony: "The chest may be
deformed by compression during infancy, and by many of the injurious practices
of mothers and nurses; but the chief agents in distorting this part of the
skeleton are the various kinds of corsets. It is especially from the sixth to
the last rib that this pressure is exercised; these, from their greater
flexibility, are pressed inward, and all the organs within them— lungs, heart,
stomach, liver, etc.—are more or less changed in their position and form; the
amount of air introduced iuto the lungs is lessened, the circulation of the
blood through the heart is impeded, the stomach cannot perform properly its
functions of digestion, and the liver is displaced downward and presses upon
the intestines, laying the foundation for diseases of the chest, consumption,
heart-disease, dyspepsia, constipation, and many other ills which shorten and
embitter the lives of most of the votaries of fashion.*

Case Reported by the "British Medical Journal."—A female servant died suddenly
a short time since in London. The doctor could not account for the death, and
made a post mortem examination, which showed that the stomach had been reduced
to the size of a litttle child's, and the heart pushed out of its proper place
through tight lacing.

Tight Lacing Pollutes the Blood.f—So does our mode of dressing pollute the
blood. One of the worst of blood poisons is the waste matter of the system when
not thrown off by its natural channels. And one of the most important of these
channels is the lungs. But in order to act properly the lungs must have free
play, and this they cannot have with our present style of dress. Originally,
the lungs were made to bear an exact proportion to the wants of the body in
this respect. Any thing, then, which diminishes their capacity destroys the
balance, and pollutes the blood by retaining the waste matter in the system.
This may develop consumption, scrofula, catarrh, and even some diseases the
origin of which is sometimes popularly ascribed to the lower vices. And no
woman in ordinary society dresses so

* A young lady of our acquaintance called on one of our physicians the other
day to prescribe for a rush of bl*od to the head. "I have been doctoring
myself," said the languid fair one, with a smile, to the kind M. D., while he
was feeling her pnlse. u Why, I have taken Brandreth's Pills, Parr's Pills,
Strangburg's Pills, Sand's Sarsaparllla, Jayne's Expectorant, used Sherman's
Lozenges and Plaster, and—"

"My heavens I madam," interrupted the astonished doctor, "all those do your
complaint Do good I"

"No! Then what shall I take?" pettishly inquired the patient.

"Take," exclaimed the doctor, eyeing her from head to foot; "take!" exclaimed
he, after a moment's reflection, " why—madam—take—tiike t<Jf your corsets 1"

It is needless for us to state that she is still suffering from the disease.—
Missouri Journal.

tThis paragraph, and tho one which follows, were written by Miss Julia Golman
for Borne and H a'th.

as to wholly avoid such results, unless she has made a special study of the
matter and planned her dress accordingly.

Weak and Silly Excuses Described.—But how many give the subject this study, or,
indeed, any serious thought at all? We will only reply by referring to the
exasperatingly stupid assertion made by almost any woman you meet, learned or
unlearned, thoughtful or silly, that her dress is "not tight I" Why, the
ordinary dress that men wear diminishes their breathing capacity one fourth;
and what woman wears her clothing so loose as that? I call a dress too tight
that you hit when you draw in the fullest possible breath. "But my waist is
naturally slender," says one woman. She means that she has inherited small
lungs. Her ancestors, more or less of them, compressed their lungs in the same
way that we do, and it has become in her ea£e a congenital deformity. This
leads us to one of the worst aspects in the whole matter—the transmitted
results of iudulgence in this deadly vice, and it shows itself in diminished
vitality and liability to take on disease of many kinds.

And then the waists. It is pretty well understood now that large waists are the
coming style. That is just the way with fashion always—get all to follow it,
and then, hey, presto I whirl around to the very thing, whatever it may be,
which it will -be the most difficult to follow. Here the whole servile crowd
that have been literally killing themselves to please fashion find themselves
deserted and their " naturally slender " waists held up to pitiless mockery.
One would think they would feel outraged by it; but, poor things, like the
eels, they take it patiently; "they are used to it."

The only agony is to learn how to obey the dictate. "It is a great deal easier
to squeeze the ribs in than to get them out again," says a despairing wasp.

"Well, let's see; take off the corsets."

"O, I can't live without them! I can't hold myself up."

We smile at that, but it comes too near the literal truth. For although there
is a backbone in there somewhere, it is possibly very crooked; or, if not, the
muscles that ought to steady it have now been so long replaced by corsets that
they arc not only weak but largely absorbed; they are shriveled down to mere
rudiments. That is the inevitable result of the pressure and the lack of use.

If you really cannot sit up, lie down, and have some one use your muscles for
you. Once, twice, or thrice a day have them rubbed or worked with the hand of
an attendant an hour or more as you can bear it. Then lean over and have the
spine percussed with the edges of the hands. The idea is to have muscles which
we cannot exercise exercised for us. Then the blood will flow to them and
nourish them until they are strong enough to be exercised in the ordinary way.

Fou want shoulder-braces? Not a bit of it. You have dwarfed your abilities with
artificial muscles long enough. You want to use your own muscles, now. Very
few, however, will need all this nursing, and you must be brave and strong as
you can, for since large waists are the fashion, you must have one, you know.

Are you aware that ladies complained in the same way when corsetboards went out
of fashion some years ago? And did it never occur to you to inquire how a great
many women live without corsets entirely? How delicate little boys and girls
are held together without corsets or other tight clothing? Perhaps some such
reflections will convince you that the latter are not wholly indispensable, and
that, in spite of your feelings at first, you will soon be able to do without
them.

Tight Lacing and General Weakness. — A learned and eloquent, though sarcastic
lecture,* was delivered some time ago by a physician of extensive observation,
upon this subject. lie began by saying that many causes combined to produce the
much-lamented delicacy of American women. Chief among these was the system of
torture procured by the contrivance called a corset, or corsets. He was always
giving hints of this to his lady patients, but never found one. who "laced
tight," as they called it. They wore "the thing," they 'acknowledged, but while
gasping for breath would declare, " I can put my whole hand between my waist
and corset!" And it would not do to contradict them; he could only intimate his
unbelief. He did wonder, he said, where some young ladies stowed away their
dinner, for it was a curious fact, that as they contracted the space for
receiving food, they seemed to enlarge the quantity to be received. It could
not, of course, fine room inside the whalebone, and so the stomach must be
pushed out of place in order to do its work properly, bringing on dyspepsia and
its train of miseries. Then the lungs were compressed, and the heart pushed out
of its proper limits, and a little record of rebellion was kept within the
system, in place of the beautiful, harmonious account of a grand, healthful
action of the whole human machinery. There was the back-bone made for bending,
and how could it be bent while splintered and bandaged like a broken limb? Any
part of the body made for action, if not allowed to act, grew weak for want of
exercise, and a lady should go through, every day, those graceful undulations
of form which keep the spine and limbs in healthful action.

Absurdity of Tight Lacing.—There would be no tight lacing if girls could be
made to understand this simple fact—that men dread the thought of marrying a
woman who is subject to fits of irritable temper, to bad headaches, and other
ailments we need not mention; all of which, everybody knows, are the direct and
inevitable product of the compression of the waist.

* Reported by Miss E. A. Bainbridge.

An unnaturally-compressed waist is far n ore certain of detection than a mass
of false hair or a faint dusting of powder. If the young lady who, to obtain
the appearance of a dragon-fly, has been subjecting herself to considerable
physical pain, and who has been laying up for herself a pretty store of
ailments, which only want time to pronounce themselves, could only see the
stare of scarcely-disguised contempt and understand the scornful pity, which
greet the result of her labor, we should have a change of the fashion—and it is
merely a fashion. Through all changes women remain true only to one fashion.
Whether her clothing is as long and lank as that of a Grecian virgin, or
whether she builds around the lower half of her figure a rotund and capacious
structure of steel, she is ever faithful to the tradition of a small waist; and
she will weaken her circulation, she will make her hands red, she will incur
headache, she will crack her voice, and she will ruin her digestion, all to
produce a malformation which wise men regard with pity and fools with derision.
*

The General Question Illustrated, f—" O, indeed, my dress is not tight! My
waist is naturally small; I never could wear a tight dress." Such is the
universal observation. No lady dresses tightly, none whose dress is not loose.
Even the Empress of Austria, who has the enviable reputation of having the
smallest waist in the world, would doubtless say her dress was quite loose; and
no doubt it is. So the subject of my essay will not apply to any one. I will
merely speak of it in the abstract.

First, how we would suppose it would affect the bones. They are apparently hard
and unyielding structures, yet will grow in any form or position in which they
mayvbe doubled up. In proof whereof, see the thousands of bent spinal columns,
from children spending so many hours every day bending over school-desks. "Just
as the twig is bent the tree inclines," or, " Mar the young sapling, and the
gnarled oak will tell of thee for centuries."

Man is the only animal that is made to look up; but these stooped shoulders and
bent spinal columns prevent this, to some*, extent, and diminish, also the
cavity given to the lungs, interfering more or less with their functions. This,
of itself, is a serious evil; and, like all other deformities, more apt to come
on in young persons, when the bones are somewhat cartilaginous, and yield
readily to these forced positions. Yet even in old age the bones are still
changing structures, and grow as they are placed. We are told of an old lady
who spent the last years of her life in an alms-house, bent over knitting. The
bones grew in that cramped position, till across the shoul

* Alhen&um.

tThe remainder of this chapter was written as a separate paper by Mrs. Mary
Dixon Jones. M.D., and placed in the hands of one of the present compilers for
publication in ffome and Health.

[graphic]

der measured only five inches, and from top of sternum to pelvis only nine
inches.

The heart and lungs are encased in a bony structure, as if to give them a more
secure protection. The vertebral or spinal column is placed posterially, the
sternum, or breast-bone, in front, and the ribs around. Only seven of the ribs
are joined directly to the sternum, and they by cartilaginous attachments. The
rest are more or less floating, so as to allow the fullest expansion to the
chest, and the greatest freedom to the lungs. In that form the chest should be
naturally expanded, and the ribs free. But the young lady commences with gentle
pressure, gradually drawing nearer and nearer together the floating ribs,
diminishing more and more the size of the chest, giving less and less room to
the lungs; and in that position the ribs grow, and hence will follow the
permanent deformity of a small waist.

The ribs which curve off so beautifully and gracefully, can be brought partly
together, or quite, or even be made to lap over. Dr. Merideth Reese dissected a
woman in which they were completely lapped, and the flesh seemed bruised. From
the lower part of the sternum to the back-bone should measure eight or ten
inches, yet so can these bones be compressed and

brought together that there are instances of its measuring only one and three
fourths inches 1 Isn't this interfering with the very sources of our existence?
We look with horror at the Chinese compressing their feet, and at the
flat-headed Indians compressing their skulls. Both customs seem absurd and
ridiculous in the extreme, but ours is far more bar. barous and injurious.
Better compress the feet, head, or any part of the body, than right here at the
very fountain-head, at the very citadel of life.

The soft extremity of the sternum, too, is sometimes bent in, and grows and
ossifies in that position; yet we wonder that consumption is so universal, iind
so generally on the increase. The only wonder is that such persons live at all.

A gain, bones become soft from want of exercise, and, as our ladies universally
dress, the bones of the chest hare no freedom of action. Kept inactive they
become more and more softened, and more and more pliable, and bow easy from
this condition may follow lateral curvature of the spine. Some physicians have
asserted that all fashionably-reared young ladies have this condition to some
extent; that it is a universal condition among women; sometimes only a little
so—just enough to be graceful 1 But always it will interfere with the action of
the lungs.

[graphic]

The lungs consist only of air-cells, composed of the finest and most delicate
mucous membrane. Myendie said there was a great problem to be demonstrated in
the construction of the lungs, viz., to establish an immense extent of surface
between the atmospheric air and the blood in the small space occupied by the
lungs. He might have thought of great vessels or large tubes. No one could have
conceived of making six hundred millions of little air-cells, and arranging
around their walls millions and millions more of blood-vessels, so that the
blood could be brought into immediate contact with the air, over this immense
extent of surface, and all wrapped in so small a space. Nothing can exceed the
beauty of such a structure. Into these millions of air-cells fresh, pure,
invigorating air comes rushing in, filling every one, uniting there with the
impure, worn-out particles of the body, and carrying them off in the form of
carbonic-acid gas.

But if the chest is compressed the air-cells cannot expand, the air cannot get
in, the blood has no way of parting with its impurities, so these impurities
are carried back into the circulation, rendering every tissue of the body
sickly and every organ unhealthy. The brain suffers with the rest, for to it
must come the impure, unhealthy blood to nourish it; its structure becomes
diseased, it cannot act healthily, nor is it possible for it to show its full
power or activity. The whole nervous system partakes of this same morbid
condition, producing a thousand morbid feelings and unpleasant sensations. No
doubt this accounts for much of the indisposition and ill-health so general
among women. A medical journal lately asserted that " the vitality of American
women has been constantly decreasing for many years ;" and one of our New York
daily papers lately informed its readers that our American women were weak in
the back, dyspeptic in the stomach, and nervous to the verge of insanity.

It is impossible that the blood should be thoroughly purified unless every one
of these millions of air-cells has the fullest and freest expansion. We canuot
afford to dispense with any one of them. And how easy it is to prevent this
expansion. Composed of such fine, delicate membranes, they cannot bear up
against much force or pressure. Even the weight of a gentleman's clothing is
said to interfere with his breathing one fourth, and how much more the cruel
compression of corsets, whalebones, and steel, oftentimes requiring all the
young girl's strength to pull them together 1

If the air-cells are not fully expanded they flab together; in time adhesion
must take place, then inflammation, then ulceration—a direct road to
consumption. In effect it renders the lungs smaller, which of itself is a
predisposing cause of disease. Large and well-developed lungs are the best
inheritance we can have; and thus diminishing their size and capacity
diminishes our vigor, power, and vitality, and lessens our hold upon life. The
larger our lungs are, and the more we breathe, other things being equal, the
longer we are going to live, and the more power and vigor we will have. I know
they are very unfashionable, yet when we consider how very useful they are,
that the larger our waists the better we are off both as to length of life and
enjoyment of it, as well as strength and activity of mind, we might have the
courage to stem the tide, to dare even to have waists. Not many years ago a
rich man died in England, leaving a certain annuity to the bravest man. It was
difficult to decide, so for decision it was referred to the brave old Duke of
Wellington, and he declared it was the man who shut the gate of a certain city
against the surging of battle; so the bravest woman is she who in fashionable
life dares shut the gate against the floodtide of destructive fashion.

Even little girls are brought to this altar of fashion to be sacrificed. Their
waists are compressed, their gait rendered unsteady and ungraceful, their
vivacity of spirit destroyed. Pale faces, dull eyes, heavy headaches, and a
life-time of feebleness and sickness, tell the sequel. Very seldom do we find a
young girl dressed so as to give the lungs their proper freedom.

Bringing the ribs together as shown must necessarily press all the internal
organs out of place. The liver is pushed and squeezed out of shape, at times
pressed quite below the waist; the stomach carried out of position; the colon,
which lies just below the waist, was in one instance found in the lower part of
the abdomen. A professor once said in the dissecting-room to his class, that to
find the position of the internal organs they need never look at a female
subject, for in them they are always out of place! The abdominal organs falling
down upon the movable uterus topple it over on the floor of the pelvis,
bringing on a long train of evils.

The whole process of breathing is by the action of the muscles. The chest is
formed largely of muscular structure, great immense muscles branching in every
direction—an immense muscular apparatus to expand the chest and help in the
process of breathing, to give us the breath of life. It is wonderful how this
immense machinery of muscles is arranged to accomplish this end. Besides, the
great muscles of the abdomen are brought into play to help—in fact, almost
every muscle of the body seems to be brought into action to accomplish more
fully and effectually this great act of breathing; and to do this effectively
they must have the freest motion and the fullest action, no obstruction in any
way. Muscles involuntarily shrink from any impediment.

But this multitude of muscles which God has arranged so beautifully around the
body wc keep inactive, bind them down with ligatures, press them with heavy
clothing, and impede their action by every incumbrance. The breathing
apparatus, instead of being free and active, the chest fully and largely
expanding about the waist, is bound down and immovably fixed, only a little
panting at the upper part of the chest. How fearfully we interfere with the
designs of the Creator—how we abuse this beautiful organism 1

"We have wronged it, we do wrong It,
'Tis majestically dumb."

The muscles, from being thus inactive, grow weak and powerless, and forget
their cunning; even so weak, that when the corsets, those unnatural supports,
are removed, the muscles have so lost their power, are so feeble, they can no
longer sustain the body, and the young girl will say she feels as if she was
all falling to pieces, or would break in two. And as the muscles grow yet
weaker and more debilitated, she will tell you she can't go without the
corsets. I have known some conscientiously try to lay them aside, but would
feel so wretched, so miserable without them—so long accustomed to this
artificial support that there is no strength in the muscles to hold the body
up, or the organs in position, and going without them produces indefinably
unpleasant sensations.

The stomach, liver, and intestines which lie immediately under the abdominal
muscles, are not only misplaced by the weakness of the muscles, but essential
to the health of these organs is the constant stimulus of the contraction and
relaxation of these same muscles. And when these muscles are kept in a state of
inactivity, as is always the case in our mode of dressing, these organs always
suffer; the liver becomes torpid, the stomach dyspeptic, bowels constipated,
and general inefficiency of every function, either of which conditions will
follow legitimately from tight lacing, and either one is sufficient of itself
to produce any sickness. And with the complication, how can any one escape
general ill-health?

This one cause is doing more to undermine the health of American people than
any other thing. It is working more destruction. There is not a function of the
human body that is properly performed, not an organ that does its duty. As one
writer has said, "It has slain more women in a score of years than the sword
does men in a century; stifled more children than the Ganges." It is an
historical fact that the same woman invented corsets w ho instigated St.
Bartholomew's massacre; and she has worked more destruction by the former than
the latter.

Why is it so universal? Does it add to the beauty of the person? Onlv our
perverted tastes prevent us from regarding it with the utmost horror. When a
Swiss once saw a fine-looking Englishman, he exclaimed. "What a pity he has not
the goiter." So, we are so accustomed to mutilated waists, that when we see a
naturally-formed woman we are apt to say, "What a pity she has not a small
waist." If we look at the beautiful specimens of ancient statuary we find no
small, contracted chests, nor did Powers take for his model one of our
fashion-plates. If they are correct he certainly showed a plentiful lack of
taste.

Furthermore, it destroys all gracefulness of carriage. When any muscles of the
body are cramped, the movements cannot be easy; there is a certain wiggle—a "
divine wiggle." How is the human race to have health with this mode of
dressing? Only fashion makes us think it is beautiful, or tolerate it for a
moment. We would not otherwise endure the misery it imposes; but so accustomed
are some to suffering, that they are hardly conscious of it, ihey don't know
when they are dressing tight, don't know when the breath.ng is oppressed.

When Lady Mary Wortley Montague was traveling in Turkey, while preparing for
the bath, laying aside her corsets, one of the women of the Turkish harem took
up this little instrument of torture, surveyed it in all directions, and
turning to Lady Mary said, "Does your husband make you wear this?" A greater
tyrant than our husbands imposes them upon us. If we would only recollect what
Carlyle reminds us of, that "rags " are not of as much importnaoe as the
person.

EXERCISE AND HEALTH.

Toil and Activity Necessary to Health.—Frederick the Great said: "As for my
plan of not sparing myself, I confess it the same as before. The more one
nurses one's self, the more feeble and delicate does the body become. My trade
requires toil and activity, and both my body and mind must adapt themselves to
their duty. It is not necessary that I should live, but it is necessary that I
should act. I have always found myself the better for this method. However, I
do not prescribe it for any one else, and am content to practice it myself."

Severe Exercise after Eating Injurious.—Do not take severe exercise immediately
after eating. Sir ISusick Harwood made a thorough test of this question in this
wise. Having fed two hungry pointers with the same kind of food and with the
same amount, he allowed one of them to rest in his kennel while he kept the
other in constant exercise for a couple of hours. Both dogs were then killed,
and their condition carefully examined. It was

found that in the dog which had remained in his kennel digestion was nearly
completed, while in the other the digestive process had scarcely commenced. The
inference was conclusive, namely, that severe exercise should not be taken
immediately after a hearty meal.

Light Exercise after Eating is Healthful.—This question bas been thoroughly
tested in many ways. Light exercise, instead of hindering, promotes digestion,
and in this way is helpful to the physical system. It should be light, however,
as after a full meal the digestive organs are taxed to their utmost, and repose
to the other parts of the system will be helpful.

These Rules Apply also to Mental Exercise.—The brain should not be heavily
taxed immediately after a hearty meal. Doing so leads to indigestion and to
other disorders consequent thereto. The same law holds good in physical and
mental work. Indeed, literary men and those intensely and severely devoted to
business are the greatest sufferers from indigestion.

Early Walking and Its Value.—For persons in ordinary health, walking is a very
valuable and economic exercise, and every one who can do so should habituate
himself to it. A little walk of half an hour upon arising is advisable for
strong persons, but cannot be endured so early by persons in delicate health.
But to those who can bear it, the early walk, not too brisk, is a most
healthful luxury.

How to Make the Walk Most Healthful.—Walking, however, should be walking, and
not sauntering. Carry the head erect, expand the chest, and drink in the pure
air, and move briskly enough to secure your end. Let the eye turn from one
object to another, and not be fixed on the ground in contemplation; note the
beauties or deformities of the landscape; take a companion with you if you can,
to whom you can refer your opinions on what you see and from whom you can
receive suggestive thoughts in return; stop at times and sit upon a rock or
fence both for rest and the enjoyment of some striking scene, and let not the
pleasure be turned to weariness by any overstraining for the name and fame of a
fast walker.

Walking Combined with Useful Investigation.—To those citizens who can spare a
week or more in the summer let us recommend the pedestrian journey as a
renovator of body and mind. With the physical exercise may be joined geological
or botanical, or geographical or historical investigation, and the delighted
mind will help the body to its rejuvenescence. Or, if you are an artist, you
can use your sketching powers on mountain or stream, and so provide memorials
of your tour.

In Walking the Dress Should be Loose.—A tightly-dressed person cannot enjoy
walking. One cannot inflate the lungs with the increased quantity of air needed
for the increased activity of the system. To promote this there should be a
gentle movement of the arms. All untrammeled men and 'women, and boys and
girls, naturally move their arms more or less in walking. It is not needful to
swing them like a steam engine, but a natural movement of this kind will be
graceful in persons otherwise graceful. This also gives character to the gait
and bearing of the individual, and imparts life and animation.

Walk Untrammeled.—Ladies should break up the pernicious fashion of always
carrying something in their hands. With a short walking-dress the hands would
seldom be needed to manage that. With a broad-brimmed hat the face may be
shaded enough to make the carrying of a parasol superfluous, except in the
hottest part of the day in hot weather. If a long dress must be worn, let the
skirt be hooked or pinned up, so that the hands and arms may be free. t

Effect of Tight Lacing on Walking.—Tight lacing weakens the action of all the
muscles directly. They are so intimately bound together that if one suffers,
all the others suffer with it. Bind any animal about the middle so that the
muscles there cannot work, and all the other principal muscles must work under
restraint. So, set one of these ligatured bodies to walking, and the whole
operation is a very constrained and mechanical affair; the lower limbs move
mostly by themselves, and the lay figure slides along very much as if on
castors. This gives the characterless gait somewhat peculiar to our American
women. The upper part of the figure is still. The ligature about the waist has
cut off the sympathy which should exist between the two, and so cheats the
walker out of nearly all the benefit to be derived from the exercise. She says
that walking hurts her, and in that she is right. Then she desists from
walking, and in that she is wrong. She should put herself into proper condition
for walking, and persist in it, though discreetly, of course; not to utter
exhaustion.

Exercise for Delicate Women.—Perhaps it would be better for delicate women to
take a large proportion of their exercise in other ways at first. Croquet,
riding, and driving might be tried, but nothing will help them much until they
dress right. Rambling in the fields and woods, berrying, gathering flowers and
botanizing, are among the best forms of exercise for women, next to out-of-door
work. Gardening is the best, perhaps, all things considered. It is active,
gently exciting, tasteful, and available to most women, for very few of those
who read these pages are so shut up that they do not have a chance in a
court-yard at least, however small it may be. And it is surprising to see what
can be done in some of our city yards

VI ear the Right Kind of Shoes.—Our foot-gear also affects our walking. The
shoes at present worn are strong and thick-soled, and that is well, but il
stiff enough to make corns, that mars the pleasure of walking. High heels will
also do that by driving the foot painfully into the forward part of the shoe.
Insist on having all the heel removed, and then have only one or two
thicknesses of leather or "lifts " put on, quite as wide as the sole and as
long as the heel. Then, if your shoes are large enough, you will enjoy your
walking as you never could with high and narrow heels. Besides, by wealing
these unnatural heels we derange the whole basis of our physical structure, and
sow the seeds of our innumerable ills which we are but just beginning to reap.
Ladies (and gentlemen, too,) aie almost as perverse about tight shoes as they
are about tight dresses, and shoemaking is in a very barbarous state.

Exercise a Cure for Many Diseases.—There are many diseases, at least many forms
of indisposition, which, with a strong will, may be walked away, provided the
exercise be taken systematically and rendered a prominent feature in the daily
treatment. Tone is imparted by this means to both mind and body, cheerfulness
replaces gloom, and sympathy for others a morbid dwelling on self. The exercise
should be active, and not consist of either strolling or sauntering out of
doors, or even amateur gardening. A brisk walk may be taken by a strong person
at a pace of at least three miles an hour, but always stopping short of
fatigue.

Exercise " About the House " Not Enough.—People will be often heard to say that
they take plenty of exercise about the house, and that they are on their legs
many hours of the day. What is wanted for the health is exercise without
fatigue, for fatigue is exhaustion, and the desired object is only to be gained
on the terms just stated.

Exercise by Rule Firmly Observed.—The distance walked could be increased daily,
and it will be found that increasing strength will give the readiness and wish
for increasing exercise. There is an accumulation of incapability in those who
are afflicted with what are vaguely called nervous disorders, which render such
persons restless, fidgety, irritable, and full of strange fancies, and which is
best brought down to a healthy standard by exercise in the open air, and its
concomitant change of scene and new trains of thought.

Exercise as a Cure for Low Spirits.—Exercise of body and mind has been well
described as the grand constituent of health and happiness, die central point
upon which every thing turns. Motion seems to be a great preserving principle
of nature, to which even inanimate things are subject; for the winds, waves,
the earth itself, are restless, and the waving of tree?, shrubs, and flowers,
is known to be an essential part of their economy. A fixed rule of taking
several hours' exercise every day, if possible, in the open air, if not, under
cover, will be almost certain to secure one exemption from disease, as well as
from attacks of low spirits, cntiui—that monster who is ever waylaying the rich
indolent. "Throw hit a stone, the giant dies." Low spirits cannot exist in the
atmosphere of bodily and mental activity.

Abuse of Physical Exercise.—One of our magazine writers has well stated that
those who have gone through the severest training become, in the end, dull,
listless, and stupid, subject to numerous diseases, and in many instances the
ultimate victims of gluttony and drunkenness. Their unnatural vigor seldom
lasts more than five years. It was especially remarked by the Greeks that no
one who in boyhood won the prize at the Olympic games ever distinguished
himself afterward. The three years immediately preceding seventeen are years of
great mental development, and nature cannot at the same time endure any severe
taxing of the physical constitution. Prudence, therefore, especially at this
critical period of life, must ever go hand in hand with vigor, for the evils of
excess outweigh by far the evils of deficiency.

False Criticism Concerning Exercise Answered.—A modern author, after discussing
the general question of sedentary occupations, and referring to the fact that
the number thus engaged has become very large, goes on to say that occasionally
such persons break away for a day's active exercise. A large number go into the
country for a month during the summer. Once at the old homestead, or in the
mountains, they plunge into the hay-field or climb the hill. Most of them are
led to doubt the value of exercise because of the effects which follow these
exertions. Without doubt, the labor is generally excessive for such persons;
but if they would manage their table habits rightly, the results would
generally be more than satisfactory.

When a man is tired, he is tired all through—the stomach not less than the
legs. Now, what is the usual custom? After a walk of twenty miles, or a day at
haying, when every fibre of the body is exhausted, the stomach is stuffed with
hearty food. The man goes to bed with flushed face and rapid pulse, and awakens
in the morning with a bad taste in his mouth, loss of appetite, and a sense of
languor. If he had taken a cup of tea and a slice of toast instead, he would
find himself the next morning none the worse for the previous day's work and
perspiration.

We all understand well when the body is weak from fever that the stomach pai
takes in the general weakness, and must not be overloaded. But when the body is
exhausted from labor, and every part is pleading for rest, then we crowd the
stomach full of beef, pudding, pies, and fruit, and spend the next day in
declaring to our friends that exercise is not what it is said to be.

W hen we are tired we should seek restoration in sleep—not in calling upon the
legs, the arms, the back, the stomach, or any other part, to undertake five or
six hours of continuous hard 'abor. The laboring man would find himself much
better in the morning if the third meal were made more light in quantity and
easy of digestion.

Riding and Rowing, and Other Kinds of Exercise.—" Horse-back.

riding" and boat-rowing are valuable kinds of exercise, and should be often
resorted to by those who have the opportunity. Nearly all work about the house,
or in the shop or field, (except that which fails to use the lower limbs,) is
to be recommended in the department of exercise. In doing such work care should
be taken to give freedom and fullness to the breathing and to the circulation
of the blood. Let the neck, waist, and feet be free.

Swimming as Exercise.*—Swimming, when done at the right hours, and not to
excess, is an appropriate and healthful exercise. If we go in several times a
day, soon after eating, or when much fatigued, and stay in long, it will injure
us. In order that swimming may prove beneficial as well as pleasant, the
following rules, referred to more fully in the chapter on bathing, should be
observed :—

1. Never go into the water less than two hours after eating; it is better still
to make it three.

2. Never go into the water when feeling much exhausted. It will do no harm to
go in when you are warm and perspiring, if you are not tired.

3. Never go into the water when you feel cold and chilly.

4. Never stay in long enough to make you feel chilly.

5. Swim and exercise vigorously while in the water.

6. Wipe dry before dressing. If the sun shines, expose the body to its rays a
short time before dressing.

7. As a rule, do not go in more than once a day.

* Paddling Versus Swimming.—The advantages of "paddling" and "treading water,"
as a means of escaping from drowning when one is suddenly precipitated into
deep water, are set forth by a writer in the Sanitary Record. The motions
performed in the acts cf paddling and treading require no previous instruction,
and in the great majority of cases would save life. In swimming the month is on
a level with the water in the Intervals of the strokes; in paddling the head is
well elevated—the Individual is able to look about, he can deliberate as to
what is best to be done, and he is much less liable to take water into the
larynx or glottis. Without prejudice to the art of swimming, children should be
exercised from the tenderest age in the art of paddling and treading water, Bo
as to impart confidence to them. Even without any preliminary practice
whatever, there is nothing to hinder man,

oman, or child, from beating the water with the hands and feet, Just aa the
lower animals d.i, and so keeping themselves afloat for a protracted period—a
period that in a multitude of Instances would be sufficient to invite rescue
and preserve life. The action of the feet alone will sustain the body; a
fortiori, the action of both feet and hands will prove yet more effectual. In
this, as in many other things, man is often unaware of his own Immense
capacities.

CRYING, LAUGHING, AND SINGING.

Crying and Health.—Probably most persons have experienced the effect of tears
in relieving groat sorrow. It is even curious how the feelings are allayed by
free indulgence in groans and sighs. A French physician publishes a long
dissertation on the advantages of groaning and crying m general, and especially
during surgical operations. He contends that groaning and crying are two grand
operations by which nature allays anguish; that those patients who give way to
their natural feelings more speedily recover from accidents and operations than
those who suppose it unworthy a man to betray such symptoms of cowardice as
either to groan or cry. He tells of a man who reduced his pulse from one
hundred and twentysii to sixty in the course of a few hours by giving full vent
to his emotions. "If people are at all unhappy about any thing, let them go
into their room and comfort themselves with a loud boo-hoo, and they will feel
a hundred per cent, better afterward." Then let the eyes and mouth be regarded
as the safety-valve through which nature discharges her surplus steam.

Laughing and Health It is said by good medical authority that there

is not the remotest corner or little inlet of the minute blood vessels of the
human body that does not feel some wavelet from the convulsion occasioned by
good hearty laughter, and also that the "central man" or life principle, is
shaken to its innermost depths, sending new tides of life and strength to the
surface, and thus materially tending to insure good health to the persons who
indulge therein. The blood moves more rapidly—probably caused by some chemical
or electric modification occasioned by the convulsion—and conveys a different
impression to all the organs of the body as it visits them on that particular
mystic journey, when the man is laughing, from what it does at other times. For
this reason every good hearty laugh in which a person indulges tends to
lengthen his life, conveying as it does new and distinct stimulus to the vital
forces.

The Laughing Cure.—" We doubt not the time will come," says another authority,
"when physicians, conceding more importance than they now do to the influence
of the mind upon the vital forces of the body, will prescribe to the torpid and
melancholy patient a certain number of hearty peals of laughter, to be
undergone at stated periods, and believe that they will, in so doing, find the
best and most effective method of producing the required effect upon the
patient. Our advice to all is, indulge in good, hearty, soulful laughter, when
the opportunity offers, and if you do not derive material benefit therefrom,
charge us with uttering false principles of materia medica."

Physical Influence of Singing.—So many injuries to the health have been
attributed by the public—and perhaps also by a portion of the medical
profession—to frequent and prolonged use of the voice, as to demand just sucn a
careful and impartial investigation of the alleged ill consequences as has
lately been made by a Russian author, and published in a German journal in St.
Petersburg. Although the paper presents no very novel views, it is of value as
showing the result of his examination of two hundred and twenty-two singers,
whose ages varied from nine to fifty-three years. These were examined with
reference to size, chest circumference, and breathing capac ity. Among the
principal deductions to be drawn from these examinations, we observe in
particular that vocal training appears to exert a remarkably beneficial
influence upon cases having a tendency to consumption. Contrary also, to the
popular impression, emphysema is not superinduced by this form of exercise. The
following are some of the conclusions of the author of the paper.

The circumference of the chest is greater in vocalists than in non-singers.
This difference increases, not only with variations in size or age, but also
with the number of years spent in singing. The greatest difference between
these classes is observed in the period of life immediately following puberty.
Persons of consumptive and intemperate antecedents, have, other things being
equal, smaller-sized chests.

The chest circumference is absolutely and relatively greater in singers.
Intemperance checks the growth of the chest.

Not only the circumference but the chest capacity is greater in singers. It
increases with the size (up to the average) with age, (up to 24 years,) and
with the number of years of vocal training; more of course in their earlier
than in their later years.

Although the chest movements are restricted in persons of consumptive habit,
they are still more so in persons of equal age who are intemperate.

The pulmonary alveoli are not lessened but increased in size by singing. Both
inspiratory and expiratory strength is clearly related to the general
constitutional condition.

Vital capacity of the lungs is greater in singers, and increases with size and
years spent in singing. It is greater even in singers of consumptive families
than in other healthy persons, while it is still less in chronic tipplers.
While laryngeal catarrh is common, bronchial catarrh is quite rare among
singers.

Their mortality is slight. Few die of consumption. A not unfrequent affection,
even among temperate singers, is Bright's disease of the kidneys.

Singing is an excellent prophylactic against consumption, and is the best means
of developing and strengthening the chest, ranking indeed above ordinary
gymnastics. The cause of this lies in the training of the lungs to deeper and
stronger respiration.

Age for Vocal Training.—A distinguished vocal-music teacher, after carefully
testing the question whether the voices of girls may be safely trained between
the ages of thirteen and seventeen, says: "My pupils at such ages responded
more successfully to the vocal discipline than did those who were older. The
period of greatest difficulty I found to be between seventeen and twenty-two
years. During these years the voice was treacheroua, husky, dull, or wanting;
the throat tender, liable to frequent colds, or even to temporary loss of
voice. This was true not only of those who had previously studied, but of those
who at that age attempted their first musical note. . . To me it seems like a
libel upon nature to assert that for an important fraction of human existence
woman at that period (thirteen to seventeen years of age) is disqualified to
critically perform the important function of vocalization. Looking at the
question in the light of physiology, I find every thing to oppose the notion;
while, in reviewing my experience, I can truthfully say that I have never in
one single instance seen the year, the month, the day, nor the hour, when, with
functional respiration and laryngeal efforts, youthful voices have shown the
faintest suspfcion of a greater degree of fatigue, or even huskiness, than at
an earlier or later age. On the direct and fortunate contrary, they were at
that period more clear, more bright, more enduring, save in instances of
precociously bad muscular habits, than at any later period; while to
reformatory discipline they responded with an alacrity never to be expected
from their senior sisters, whose greatest difficulty, be it observed, was the
means of forcing muscular habits engendered during this very period of advised
neglect.

OCCUPATIONS AND HEALTH-VITAL STATISTICS.

Mental Labor and Health. An Illustration.—To the question, "Is severe
intellectual work incompatible with good health?" a negative answer must be
given. Here is an illustrative case: The renowned Jeremy Bentham, a most able
and powerful writer on jurisprudence, the author of more than a hundred
different works, died in England, in 1832, at the age of eighty-five. In early
life he was puny and exceedingly feeble in health, and this continued for
sixteen years; the whole remainder of his life exhibited this fact, that the
greater his mental application, the better was his physical health.

There are Hundreds of Similar Cases.—Bentham's was not an exceptional case. A
multitude of similar instances could be cited. Indeed, a careful observation of
the tables of statistics compiled to show the average longevity of persons of
different occupations, assures us that, as a rule, those who are engaged
largely in intellectual pursuits, live longer than those of less mental
occupation. Here are a few instances:—

Benjamin Franklin 84

Sir John Herschel 84

Galileo 78

[merged small][ocr errors]

Halley 86

Voltaire 85

Baron Von Humboldt 90

Thomas Jefferson 83

All these are eminent examples, and the list might be indefinitely extended. A
friend, himself a physician, carefully went through one of the encyclopedias
and noted down the ages of one hundred of the greatest men of history. He found
that the aggregate ages of these men was 7,500, giving an average of
seventy-five years I

Average Longevity of Diverse Avocations.—The following table was reported by
Dr. Jarvis, giving the average longevity in some of the leading occupations in
the States of New York, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island. The table was compiled
with great care:—

Occupation!. Deathi. Age^*

Merchants & Clerks, 2,386 47'46

Tanners 230 '47-90

Cabinet-makers 253 46'34

Shoe-makers 3,233 43'03

Painters 500 43'37

Tailors 486 41-08

[table]

A study of such figures gives abundant assurance that mental pursuits are
conducive to health, rather than injurious to it. Our Creator has so wisely
made us that the employments of the mind and heart—our higher nature— bring
with them the fullest possible reward. Diligence in study, provided it be
coupled with daily physical exercise, will increase rather than shorten life.

Order of Mortality in Certain Classes of Manual Labor.—Thirty

years ago the British returns gave the following as the order of comparative
freedom from mortality in several different brandies of manual labor:—

1. Farmers, 3. Weavers, 5. Carpenters, 7. Laborers, 9. Bakers,

2. Shoe-makers, 4. Blacksmiths, 6. Sailors, 8. Miners, 10. Butchers.

Comparative Ages of Persons Active in Business.—The registry in the city of
Boston gave the following average ages of persons then counted and still
actively engaged in the different pursuits compared:—

[merged small][ocr errors]

Vital Statistics—Births.—In countries where the records of births are kept, it
is found that the annual number of births to each 1,000 of the population
varies from 29 to 40, more in some countries than in others, and more in the
rural districts than in cities. Fewer births occur in cold than in warmer
climates. More boys are born than girls, the proportion being in Russia 109
boys to 100 girls; the mean proportion for Europe being 106 boys to 100 girls.
In Great Britain the average proportion is 104 boys to 100 girls. More children
are born during the first three months of the year than during any other
quarter. Of 1,000 births, 312 occur between midniffht and 6 A.M.; 249 between 6
A.M. and noon; 183 between noon and 6 P.M.; and 256 between 6 P.M. and
midnight.

Vital Statistics—Marriage.—Under ordinary circumstances, marriage is favorable
to longevity. Married men from 25 to 30 years of age die at the rate of 6;
unmajried, at the rate of 10; and widowers, at the rate of 22 per 1,000 per
annum; and from 30 to 35 years of age, married men at the rate of 7£;
unmarried, 13; and widowers, per 1,000 per annum. From 30 to 35 years of age,
maids die at the rate of 11, and married women at the rate of 9 per 1,000 per
annum. A man married at 25 will live to the age of 65, while an unmarried man
at the same age will live only to the age of 60. A married woman at 25 will
attain the age of 65, the unmarried that of 56 only. Less crime is committed by
the married; more by the widowed; and most by those who have never married. The
chances of females being married before the age of 20, are as 1 to 5 of all
their probabilities of ever marrying; at the age of 20 the chances are one
fifth less; at 25, two thirds less; and at 30, six sevenths of all their
probabilities are lost.

Vital Statistics—Deaths.—The greatest number of deaths occur during the third
quarter of the year, and the smallest number during the fourth quarter. The
other two quarters have nearly the same proportion. Estimates vary as to the
time of day when the most deaths occur, some claiming the hours from midnight
to 6 A.M. as the most fatal, and others from 6 A.M. to noon. More deaths occur
during the first half of the day than the last half. Of all the deaths that
occur throughout the world, about one half are »f children under five years of
age.

Expectation of Human Life.—After the first year the chances of livmg increase
up to the fourth year, and then slowly decline. Rural laborers may expect to
live, on an average, 45'32 years; carpenters, 45 28; domestic servants, 42-03;
bakers, 41'92; shoe-makers, 40'87; weavers, 4192; tailors, 39'40; hatters,
88-91; stone-masons, 38-19; plumbers, 38'13; mill operatives, 38'09;
blacksmiths, 37-96; brick-layers, 37'70; printers, 36 66; clerks, 34'99; and
the average population, 39 88.

The accompanying table shows the average yearly decrease of human life

out of a given number born, and the " expectation of life," or average number
of years persons may expect to live at any period of life. The table was
compiled by Dr. Wiggleworth, after many years of intelligent research, and has
justly beeu regarded as authority by the courts in estimating the value of life
estates:

[table]

DWELLINGS AND HEALTH.

Importance of a Healthful Location.—The healthiness of dwellings depends upon
their faultless situation, construction, and management. It is, therefore, of
primary importance that the foundation of houses be on dry ground free from
decaying matters. Houses built upon a soil saturated with putrid moisture, or
upon old swamps or cess-pools or similar filthy ground, are notoriously
unhealthy, because such a soil, especially in the warm season, evolves
delsterious exhalations, and vitiates the water of the ground and the air. In
the construction of buildings it is also necessary to protect their foundations
against dampness from underground, by means either of drainage or of a
damp-proof ground floor. A construction conducive to a free and ample supply of
light and air is, then, the main condition for a healthy habitation; however
large or small, elegant or plain, the house may be, its salubrious condition
may be maintained and regulated by these two simple and cheap correctors, Light
and Air.

Remove from a Foul District.—If you live in a district soddened with foulness,
change. Shoe leather is cheaper than medicine. It will be better to get up at
five "to go to work," than to get up at two "to lay somebody out;" besides, you
will have better heart for every thing. Read Ruskin's "Athena," if you can; and
bear in mind that \4ien you bar out the goddess Athena, Queen of the Air, you
bar in a serpent whose subtle poison will shorten the number of your days,
lessen your strength, and undermine all the glory which should bless them. Have
water that looks clean, tastes clean, and whenever you lift the lid from a
kettle or saucepan, smells clean. If in doubt, catch some rain water and filter
it. Then remove to another locality.

Location of Dwellings in Cities.—Dwellings which face on free and open streets,
are to be preferred to those which open into courts, because the motion of the
air is freer in the former. In a closely-built city the corner house, having
the sweep of two streets is, in this respect, better located than others in the
block. It is not well that high blocks of dwellings should so surround the rear
court as to shut out the wind, nor that streets should terminate against the
middle of a block at right angles to it.

In the country any open, dry portion of land will make a good building spot. A
slight eminence is preferable.

Shade Trees Around Our Dwellings.—Farm-houses or other dwellings, whether for
man or beast, should not be closely shaded, as such shade obstructs both
sunlight and air currents. The aim should be to so arrange the trees in the
lawn as to permit the ingress of the sun's rays, and of the free and healthful
air.

High Ceilings and Health.—Lofty ceilings are regarded by some as a principal
means of insuring a sufficient measure in cubic feet for each person. Unless
ventilation is secured for the upper portion of a room, a lot ty ceiling only
makes that portion of space above the tops of the windows a receptacle for foul
air which accumulates and remains to vitiate the stratum below.

Capacity of Bricks for "Dampness."—As to the capacity for absorption, three
bricks from a building in process of erection, took up in twentyfour hours from
eight to fifteen ounces. From a certain brick-yard, samples of face-brick and
pressed brick absorbed ten and a half and eleven ounces; and from another,
pressed brick drank up twenty and a half and eighteen and a half ounces all in
the same time. These results are startling. We cannot suppose that lateral or
horizontal absorption, as, from driving rain, could be much different from that
which proceeds upward from wet foundations. Cannot some process of brick making
be found that will prevent this action?

Damp Walls and Their Relation to Health.—Porous walls in damp locations,
absorbing moisture and water, give rise to vaiious evils. Dr. Dean has made
some tests as to the absorbent capacity of bricks.* He first examined in dry
weather brick from an old one-story building upon high ground, dry,
well-sewered, and well exposed to sunshine. A face-brick next above the
foundation, contained one ounce of water; four feet higher, one half; and just
under the roof, one twelfth. In a building differently circumstanced,
notoriously damp and unwholsome, on high but "made" ground, a face-brick in the
fourth row from the foundation was found to contain eighteen ounces of water 1

Dampness of Other Walls.—Most kinds of sandstone are so porous that water and
air easily pass through them. Solid or quarried limestones are scarcely
permeable by air, but as they are of irregular shapes, and require much mortar,
they are not much more air-tight than walls made of regular bricks and thin
layers of mortar. Observations have been taken of the average quantity of
mortar used with different building stones. We may suppose that taking the wall
as a whole, it is equal to one third with quarried limestone, one fourth with
tufaceous limestone, one fifth to one sixth with bricks, and one sixth to one
eighth with cubes of sandstone. Thus, the quantity of the mortar used assists
in keeping the walls pervious to air to a certain degree.

Why Damp Walls are Injurious.—Wet walls are air-tight, and consequently
injurious:—

1. By impeding ventilation and diffusion of gases through their pores being
closed up or narrowed by water.

2. By disturbing the heat-economy of our bodies. Damp walls act as absorbents
of heat by their evaporation and increase heat-loss by one-sided radiation.
Diseases known to be often caused by cold are particularly frequent iu damp
dwellings: rheumatism, catarrh, and chronic lung disease, Bright'* disease of
the kidneys, etc.

In a house using one hundred thousand bricks of ten pounds weight each, which
have absorbed the average quantity of water, one hundred thousand

* Damp brick walls are common, especially in houses in the country where they
are exposed upon the north and east sides. So common is this that, iu many
places In the country, a strong prejudice exists against brick houses on
account of their constant dampness poimda, or ten thousand gallons, or fifty
tons of water, must leave the walls before they become habitable. How is this
to got rid of? By full and perfect ventilation.

How to Dry Damp Walls.—The most effective method is by letting them evaporate
the water into the air. This is best accomplished by heating all the chimneys
and stoves, and the constant ventilation of all the rooms until the necessary
degree of dryness is obtained.

Ventilation is also constantly necessary to maintain the proper degree of
dryness to counteract their tendency to re-absorb the various gases, and the
emanations resulting from inhabitation, and the vapors arising from the
culinary department.

How to Prevent Walls from Becoming Damp—A Successful Experiment.—A gentleman
having a brick house exposed on all sides, and suffering from dampness in the
kitchen, which was in a wing upon the most exposed side, tried an experiment
which has proved very satisfactory. A barrel of the best cement * was
purchased, and a common tin wash-basin used for mixing it. The cement was mixed
with water till about the consistency of cream, and then applied thickly with a
large paint-brush. Of course the mixture had to be constantly stirred to
prevent the cement from settling to the bottom. And on account of its very
rapid settling it could only be mixed in very small quantities; half a gallon
is about as large a quantity as can be readily handled at a time. When first
dried it seemed somewhat of a failure, because it could be so easily brushed
off, but after it had had twenty-four hours to harden it formed a strong,
durable coating. The color is a neutral tint, somewhat like Ohio stone. The
coating kept the wall perfectly dry, and as it is not expensive and does not
need skilled labor in its' application, ought to be extensively used. The
coating should be brushed into all the crevices and openings of the work, and
it may be found desirable to apply two coats in order that all the openings,
etc., may be completely closed.

The covering of brick walls with several coats of good oil paint, also prevents
them from imbibing moisture. The walls should be first covered with a thorough
coat of sizing.

* Cement is much stronger than mortar, and can be used to greut advantage in
many places Instead of lime, even in the face of the fact that it is much more
costly than lime, except in a few favored localities where it is made. The
usual proportions are one part nf the cement to five of sand. In pointing, the
proportion is sometimes as low as three parts sand to one of the cement.
Coarse, clean saud—almost pebbles—can be used to the extent of three parts to
one of the cement. Some advise mortal' to be allowed to set, and then wet and
worked again. This course will not answer with cement, which is greatly injured
by such a method of working. The greatest enemy of both mortar and cement is
the frost. The power with which water expands at the freezing point is
practically unlimited, and where it penetrates into the crevices and pores of
mortar and freezes, or when wet mortar Is allowed to freeze, its strength is
destri'yed.

Damp Closets and Health.—All closets should be so constructed that they may be
often thoroughly aired. Closets that are damp are dangerous enemies to health.
If your closets are damp and engender a meld which encases not only boots and
shoes, but also other articles of wearing apparel, obtain a half peck of
unslacked lime and put in a shallow dish in the closet, and it will absorb the
dampness. When it becomes quite damp it should be renewed.

Caution Against Damp Floors.—Floors of cellars and basements should not be made
of brick or similar soft and porous material; apparently these can be easily
kept clean, but they absorb and retain moisture, and not only remain cold and
damp, but by their porosity expose the impurities of the absorbed moisture to
evaporation, and thas pollute the air and render otherwise healthy cellars and
basements damp and unwholesome. Floors of water-tight cement or of wood, well
ventilated underneath, are therefore preferable.

How to Make Dry Cellar Floors.—For making floors, the followmg method is said
to produce very desirable results: Four parts coarse gravel, or broken stone
and sand, and one part each of lime and cement, are mixed in a shallow box, and
well shovelled over from end to end. The sand, gravel, and cement are mixed
together dry. The lime is slacked separately and mixed with just water enough
to cement it well together. Six or eight inches of the mixture is then put on
the bottom, and when well set, another coating is put on, consisting of one
part cemeut and two of sand. This will also answer for making the bottom of a
cistern that is to be cemented up directly upon the ground without a lining of
bricks.

Danger from Vegetables in Cellars.—Most cellars contain a large amount of
decomposing vegetable matter in the form of decaying fruits and vegetables,
which give off their foul and poisonous gases during the process of decay.
These gases give origin to diphtheria, typhoid and scarlet fever, and many
other serious illnesses. Then, again, cellars are usually close, unventilated,
and unsunned. Air which is kept confined and without the purifying influence of
sunlight, soon becomes impure and unfit to breathe, and if to this we add the
dampness and constantly-escaping gases of decomposing vegetation, we have the
condition of the atmosphere of cellars. The cellar should be thoroughly
cleansed, aired, and sunned as often as foul air becomes noticeable, and all
accumulations of rubbish or vegetable matter should be removed as soon as they
begin to decay.

Danger from Wetting Coal in Cellars.—The habit of wetting coal in bulk in the
cellar, which is sometimes practiced, causes it to emit poisonous gases
deleterious to health, and it should be carefully avoided.

Sitting-Rooms and. Bed-Rooms and Health.—Dwellings,, and particu1 larly
sitting-rooms and bed-rooms, should be so constructed as to allow, at all

seasons, regular ventilation, as moisture and the exhalations of their
occupants accumulate and are absorbed by the porous walls, by carpets, beds,
and furniture. The importance of ventilating bed-rooms is a fact in which every
body is vitally interested, and which few properly appreciate. If two men are
to occupy a bedroom during a night, let them step upon weighing-scales as they
retire, and then again in the morning, and they will find that their actual
weight is at least a pound less in the morning. Frequently there will be a loss
of two or more pounds, and the average loss throughout the year will be more
than one pound; that is, during the night there is a loss of a pound of matter,
which has gone off from their bodies, partly from the lungs, and partly through
the pores of the skin. The escaped material is carbonic acid and decayed animal
matter, or poisonous exhalations.

The Kitchen Sink and Health.—A little sink near a kitchen door step,
inadvertently formed, has been known, although not exceeding in its dimensions
a single square foot, to spread sickness through a whole household. Hence,
every thing of the kind should be studiously obviated, so that there should be
no spot about a farm-house which can receive and hold standing water, whether
it be the pure rain from the sky, the contents of a wash-basin, the slop-bowl,
or the water-pail .

Ripe Fruit in Sitting or Sleeping-Rooms.—Care should be taken not to permit
large quantities of ripe fruit in our sitting-rooms. Especially beware of
laying it about a sick-chamber for any length of time. That complaint which
some people make, of a faint sensation in the presence of fruit, is not
fanciful; they may be really affected by it, for two Continental chemists have
shown that from the moment of plucking, apples, cherries, currants, and other
fruits are subject to incessant transformation. At first they absorb oxygen,
thus robbing the surrounding air of its vital element; then they evolve
carbonic acid, and this in far greater volume than the purer gas is absorbed,
so that we have poison given us in the place of pure air, with compound
interest, warmth accelerating it.

The Out-door Parts of the House.—These should be looked after with unremitting
and ever-persistent care. If there is a cesspool it must be prevented from
emitting any foul odors. Disinfectants must be used promptly until a complete
change is effected. The out-door privy, if there is one, should have free
access to the air. Exclude all slops or rain-water from it. If there is odor
from it, use odorless disinfectants until it is corrected. If too foul for use,
cover it over with "calx powder," and have under the seats some receptacle—such
as the patent pail, or a half barrel or tub—which can be frequently removed,
and alternately replaced by another. A privy built above ground, with
water-tight receptacle, by the use of dry earth, powdered wood-charcoal, dry
sifted ashes, and occasional copperas-water, is easily kept neat and clean, if
cleansed each spring and fall. Heaps of rubbish and decayed wood, fruit or
vegetables, should be removed. An offensive pig-sty, "hen-roost," stable, or
other inclosure, should be cleansed at once and kept so. To do this will
require only a little care.

House Cisterns and Health.—Dr. Stevenson Macadam, F.R.S.E., Lecturer on
Chemistry in Edinburgh, has been making a series of researches which throw an
interesting light on what is one of the most fertile and irequent, but one of
the most easily controlled, sources of the contamination of our house
drinking-water. He has made a series of analyses of water dra vn from mains and
from ordinary house-cisterns in Edinburgh, and by experiment has shown the
effect upon the water from the mains of being retained in vessels containing a
number of samples of cistern deposits. The results, Dr. Macadam says,
demonstrate that the water-supply of a town or populous place, which may be
every thing that is desired at the fountain-head, and even at the supply pipe
as delivered to the house-holders, is liable to very serious contamination when
retained in house-cisterns containing deposits or sediments which are composed
in part of finely-divided-lead compound and decaying or putrescent organic
matter; and he is confident that in many cases the water-supply of both towns
and mansion-houses is rendered unwholesome from being retained in dirty
cisterns.

How to Remedy the Evil of Bad Cisterns.—The remedy for the evil lies in the
periodic cleansing of the house-cistern, which should be regularly done every
month or two, according to its position and its liability to become impregnated
with dust and sediment. The cleansing should be carried out with a very soft
brush, and every care must be taken that the natural skin of the lead be not
disturbed. A cover of wire or perforated zinc might be placed over the cistern
to keep out mice, pieces of plaster, etc.; but a tight cover, which hinders the
ajration of the water, should not be used. In ordinary cases, it is seldom or
never that cisterns are purposely cleaned out, unless there be occasion to run
off the water in order to execute repairs, and probably not even then, unless
special instructions be given to clean out the cistern. Many towns and populous
places are specially favored with water of excellent quality, as delivered into
the towns and into the cisterns, and indeed each house is placed on the same
footing for water-supply as if the foundations rested on the hills or other
country district from which the water is drawn; and it is a matter of regret
that gross inattention to the con iition of house-cisterns should lead to these
receptacles being sources of contamination of the water, which otherwise is of
the most wholesome and suitable quality for all domestic purposes.

"Death in the Kitchen Dishcloth."—A lady correspondent of the Sural World, 
having been startled by typhoid fever in her neighborhood some time ago, gives
the following good advice about dishcloths:—

If they are black and stiff, and smell like a barnyard, it is enough; throw
them in the fire, and henceforth and forever wash your dishes with cloths that
are white, cloths that you can see through, and see if you ever have that
disease again. There are sometimes other causes, but I have smelled a whole
house full of typhoid fever in one "dishrag." I had some neighbors once—
clever, good sort of folks; one fall four of them were sick at one time with
typhoid fever. The doctor ordered the vinegar barrels whitewashed, and threw
about forty cents' worth of carbolic acid in the swill-pail and departed. I
went into the kitchen and made gruel; I needed a dishcloth, and looked around
and found several, and such "rags!" I burned them all, and called the daughter
of the house to get me a dishcloth. She looked around on the table. "Why," said
she, "there was about a dozen here this morning," and she looked in the
wood-box and on the mantelpiece, and felt in the cupboard. "Well," I said, "I
saw some old black rotten rags lying around and I burned them, for there is
death in such dishcloths as those, and you must never use such again." I took
turns at nursing that family for weeks, and I believe those dirty dishcloths
were the cause of all that hard work.

Therefore, I say to every housekeeper, keep your dishcloths clean. You may only
brush and comb your head on Sundays, you need not wear a collar unless you go
from home—but you must wash your dishcloths. You may only sweep the floor when
the sun gets right; the windows don't need washing, you can look out of the
door; that spider's web on the front porch don't hurt any thing—but as you love
your lives, wash out your dishcloths. Let the foxtail grass grow in the garden,
(the seed is a foot deep anyway;) let the holes in the heels of your husband's
foot-rags go undarned; let the sage go ungathered; let the children's shoes go
two Sundays without blacking; let the hens set four weeks on one wooden egg—but
do wash out your dishcloths. Eat without a taolecloth, wash your faces and let
them dry, do without a curtain for your windows and cake for your tea—but, for
heaven's sake, keep your dishcloths clean.

Secure General Home Sanitary Inspection.—When families are housed near each
other, every family has a right to expect and to demand protection from the
civil authorities with regard to the presence of any foul odors arising from
the lack of proper care on the part of others. A writer in one of our
metropolitan journals has well said that "there will be householders who, from
thoughtlessness, ignorance, or poverty, do not secure for themselves or for
others the needed sanitary conditions. Charity, the public welfare, and the
necessary incidents of city life, require regulated and definite provision
against all those nuisances which imperil the life and health of the populace."
The same writer very properly insists "upon systematic prevention, instead of
waiting for that loss which disease always involves when it is artificial, or
when we are compelled to meet an epidemic hurriedly If your authorities do not
act, move by voluntary associations, which shall exhibit the facts and so
compel action. There is no waste so great as that of preventable disease, which
disables not only the sufferers, but puts a tax on labor, capital, and life,
much more direful than a well-directed expenditure to prevent it. Epidemics are
to be dreaded; but our greatest losses are from a chronic death and sickness
rate, which has a permanent base of supply in prevalent unsanitary conditions,
not remedied, as they should be and can be. Public health is common wealth. Can
you not do something to reduce the tax levy which forced diseases impose upon
the citizens of your city, township, and State? To the degree that sickness and
invalidism is unnecessary, it means hard times and ill-content. Every motive of
comfort and interest require that we plan to prevent all those ailments which
are within the range and duty of our control."

SCHOOL-ROOMS AND HEALTH.

Near-Sightedness in Schools.—Prof. Cohn, Dr. of Medicine and Philosophy in the
University of Breslau, * on examining 10,000 pupils, found 1,004 affected by
myopia, or "near-sightedness." All the schools in which he made his
investigations included some near-sighted individuals, but in the village
schools these unfortunates were found in the proportion of only 1*4 per cent.,
whilst in city schools ll'4 in every hundred were affected with myopia.
Furthermore, in the primary city schools the proportion was 61 per cent. In
schools of the second grade, myopes were met with in the proportion of 10'5 per
cent. In normal schools the percentage rose to 19-7; and in the Gymnasia, or
highest schools, to 26'2. In the first class of the Gymnasia more than half the
pupils were near-sighted.

An Alarming Fact.—From the researches of Prof. Cohn, with those of others, it
seems indubitable that the work of reading and writing in imperfectly-arranged
school-houses, brings about a lamentable development of myopia. Now it is
certain that myopia is hereditary, and that, according to the great law of the
extinction of the unfit, the children of myopic parents are predisposed to the
development of this disease, so that they will certainly suffer from it, if
exposed to conditions which would be apt to engender nearsightedness in normal
eyes quite free from any taint of hereditary tendency. We are, therefore, as a
people, threatened with an infinite increase of myopia, unless we can devise
some efficient sanitary precautions for counteracting the injurious effects of
prolonged application in the school-room upon our visual organs.

* American Journal of Medical Science, 1879.

How to Remedy the Evil.—Among the general deductions reached by Cohn and
others, the following are the most important:—

1. In the first place, study-rooms should be well-lighted during the day, and
especially toward evening, because a feeble or badly-arranged light compels us
to diminish the distance between the eye and the book whilst reading or
writing.

2. Light should be allowed to enter from the left side. Illumination from the
front is more or less dazzling, and obliges the pupils to bend forward too
much, or to sit side-wise in constrained and fatiguing positions. Again, light
coming from behind is entirely insufficient, because in great measure cut off
by the head or upper part of the body of each scholar.

3. The windows of a school-room should be large and high, be arranged along the
left side of the apartment so as to shed the light upon desks placed in rows at
right angles to the wall in which they are cut.

4. The light from above furnished by a sky-light is not so good as that derived
from lateral illumination. The light of lamps is recommended as being
preferable to gas, and the gas-light shining through ground-glass globes is
condemned as particularly objectionable.

5. The inclination of the desk at which the pupil sits to read or write is a
matter of no small importance. Desks which are horizontal, or only slightly
inclined, favor the development of myopia by compelling the scholar to bend the
head over a good deal whilst reading or writing. Such a position brings on, as
a mere result of weight of the blood, passive congestion of the head and eyes,
and this results in an intra-ocular tension, insensible, perhaps, when it first
appears, but very marked in its effects when long and constantly continued.
Besides, a child who acquires the habit of leaning forward in this manner, is
very apt to bend nearer and nearer his book as the muscles of the back become
fatigued, and thus, by straining his power of accommodation at short focus,
promote the rapid development of myopia. The desks of school children should,
therefore, be sharply inclined at an angle of 40° or 45° when used for reading,
and their seats should not be too high, and should be furnished with
comfortable backs.

How the Evils are Caused.—The faults of school-furniture, which give :v<e to
injurious postures, are so conducive to myopia and asthenopia, as well as to
scoliosis or lateral curvature of the spine, are:—

1. Want of, or unsuitable backs.

2. Too great a distance between the seat and the desk.

3. Disproportion; generally too great a difference between the height of the
seat and that of the desk.

4. Wrong form and slope of the desk.

Liebreich, * in his lectures in 1878, gives a very clear exposition of the way

* Consulting Surgeon in St. Thomas' Hospital, London.

in which these defects cause the diseases already mentioned, and concludes with
the subjoined recommendations, which he considers, however, less advantageous
than what he calls the American plan of having the seat and desk ma ie to every
child's measure; or the Swiss system, when seven or more diferent sizes of
seats and desks are manufactured to suit the different ck ases:—

"1. One and the same size and model of desk should be used for children and
grown-up persons of both sexes.

"2. The adaptation to the height of each child should be effected by varying
the height of the seat and the foot-board.

"3. The edge of the table is always to be in a perpendicular line above (hat of
the seat.

"4. No seat is to be without a back, and the top of this is always to be 1 inch
lower than the edge of the table for boys, and 1 inch higher than the edge of
the table for girls.

"5. In all the classes where the boys change places, the height of the seat is
to be regulated in proportion to the average height of the pupils.

"6. In all girls' schools, in all those boys' schools where the children do not
change places, in boarding-schools, and in private school-rooms, the seat of
each child should be accurately regulated in proportion to its height."

The support for the back should incline only a few degrees from the
perpendicular, and be so shaped as to press upon the spinal column just above
the hips of the pupil. The breadth of the seat ought to be considerable, in
order to support most of the thighs, and its height just such as to allow the
feet to rest easily upon the foot-board. The desk should be so arranged, by
means of a hinged flap or otherwise, so as to hold the book at an angle of 40°
or 45° whilst reading, and the paper at an angle of 20° whilst writing is being
performed by the scholars.

CARE OF CHILDREN.

Early Food of Children.—The nursing child finds its earliest and best food in
the mother's milk.* In most cases nothing more is needed until the first teeth
appear. If the mother's milk is not sufficient, diluted milk from the cow may
be used to supply the lack. If the mother does not nurse the chil 1 cow's milk
may be substituted. In such case, the milk should consist, for the first month,
of milk one part and water tvo parts, with about a half teaspoonful of pure
sugar to a half tumbler of the diluted milk. Condensed milk may be used
instead, in which case the proportion should be one part

* The exceptions to this rule are when the mother is suffering from disease, or
Is of a Cod' binni'tlve family or hftblt .

condensed milk and ten parts water. Experience shows this mixture to be the
best first food next to the mother's milk. Unless advised by an experienced
physician, no " wet nurse" should be employed. As far as possible the infant
should be trained to nursing at regular, though frequent, intervals.

Changes of Early Diet—Weaning.—As a rule the child should be weaned when from
ten to twelve months old. Except in case of teething the time should not extend
beyond that period, and may terminate at the age of eight months. The nursing
should not cease at once, as the abruptness of such change might prove
unhealthful. It is well to wean the child first from day nursing, later from
uight nursing. Food may now be given consisting of milk and sweetened water
with a little bread or cracker soaked therein. If convenient, arrowroot or rice
flour, sago, or weak gruel of oatmeal may be added. It is best that the early
food he neither cold nor hot—" milk warm" is better. No tea or coffee or
highly-seasoned food should be given. A little tender meat finely divided, or a
little beef-tea may be given once a day, after the teeth for masticating food
appear.

Best Rule as to the Exact Time for Weaning.—Between the detitnion of the four
anterior molar teeth and the canines there is an interval of several months.
This interval is recommended by that distinguished French medical professor and
author, Foussagrives, as the most favorable time for weaning. All mothers
should knoiv this fact, and, when possible, weaning should be deferred until
the child has twelve teeth. This rule is infinitely better than any one founded
on age. Forced weaning at the time of dentition leads to disorders of the
digestive passages. Hence it is dangerous to begin weaning during a teething
crisis.

Arrangement of Regular Meals for Children Later, as well as earlier,

diese meals should be as regular as possible, and the children should not be
allowed to eat " between meals." The younger the child the more frequently
should the meals be given. The habit of regularity cannot too strongly be
insisted upon. And yet not one mother in ten observes this rule. The exercise
of a little care with a little common sense will early enable the mother to
arrange the plan of regular meals and keep it.

Is the Mother's Health Injured by Nursing ?—The rule is never. Dr. Beard very
properly says: "It is an error to suppose that the constitution suffers from
suckling. Very many women have improved health from performing this most
feminine of all offices. Many very delicate females have experienced the best
effects from nursing their children; and many of the complaints incident to
woman are removed or alleviated by it. Fewer women die when nursing than at any
other period. The spirits during this period are generally more lively and
uniform, the temper milder and more even, and the general feeling more healthy
and pleasant than before."

The Mother's Food while Nursing.—The mother's food should ba simple and easy of
digestion. It is an oft-repeated truth that the food which agrees best with the
mother's health while nursing also agrees best with the child's health during
the same period. The mother's food should be ample, though in respect of
quantity as well as quality that which is best for the mother is best for the
child. Our Creator has wisely arranged these matters so that there is perfect
harmony.

A Common Artificial Food Condemned.—Concerning a very popular favorite article,
Dr. Zimmerman, as quoted by Liebig says: "Pap is a poison, the use of which
senseless custom has consecrated. Many millions are nourished with pap, but it
has also cost the lives of hundreds of thousands. The well-known Parisian
physician, Dr. Vandermonde, shares my opinion, that pap is the worst food for
children, the source of most of their maladies, their deformities, and death."
And adds Liebig, "The evil effect of the much-used 'pup' given to children,
both in the country and in towns, is well known to physicians; for it is quite
intelligible that good cows' milk is not improved but depreciated, because
wheaten flour, on account of its deficiency of the nutritive salts, is a very
incomplete sort of food."

Objections of the same serious character apply to nearly to all the kinds of
artificial food which are found in common use. They either do not comprise the
elements of food in proper or sufficient quantity, or the elements themselves
are rendered almost nugatory by dilution or adulteration.

Early Baths for Children.—For convenience, and to prevent chilliness, the child
from the first should be washed in a small tub, with the body except the head
immersed in milk-warm water. For thorough cleansing this should be done every
morning and every evening. Not only is such a bath healthful in itself, but it
also accustoms the child to the water. The warm bath should be used until one
and a half or two years old, when a cool bath shonld be substituted. The bath
should be very brief—at first not more than "two minutes." The child's body
should be quickly wiped dry and quickly clothed. Xo wet or soiled napkins
should be allowed to remain on the child.

Early Clothing for Children.—The clothing should be warm and light . As a rule,
let long clothes be worn for about six months; then change, not to short
clothes, but to those half-way between short and long; later, (when the child
should learn to walk,) to short clothes. Great care should be taken to keep the
feet warm and dry. It is well to have fine soft flannel worn next to the skin.
This should always be loose.

Early Sleep of Children.—The best-informed medical advisers tell us that, when
in health, children for the first month should sleep two-thirds of the time,
and then a little less, and so on, until about fifteen months old, when their
sleep should be about twelve hours in twenty-four. A child should be encouraged
as long as possible to take a nap in the middle of the day, though after the
age of two years it will be found difficult in many cases to induce a
continuance of the habit. Parents should insist that their children go to bed
at regular hours. The earlier the hour the better, and nothing, neither callers
at home nor company away from home, should allow interruption to the rule.

Shall Children be Rocked to Sleep ?—If the child be accustomed to sleep in the
crib from the first, it will demand nothing else, and good habits of sleep with
less exposure will be likely to continue. The best advisers now urge that the
habit of rocking children to sleep, of carrying them about the room in order to
entice them to sleep, is a great evil. A child with well regulated habits will
sleep much more successfully and pleasantly than in the old and common way of
rocking, or carrying, or jolting in the lap or arms. Kindly and tenderly, but
certainly, put the child in bed, and leave it there unless seriously ill.
Resist its cries which may demand the arms at first. Accustom the child to
sleep after nursing, not while nursing.

Shall Feather Pillows be Used for Babies' Heads ?—Important testimony in
response to this question is given by Dr. Dio Lewis. He says: "The proximate,
if not the original, cause of a large proportion of deaths among American
babies is some malady of the brain. When we suppose the death to result from
dysentery or cholera infantum, the immediate cause of the death is an affection
of the brain supervening upon the bowel disease. The heads of American babies
are, for the most part, little furnaces. What mischief must come from keeping
them buried twenty-four hours out of every twenty-four in feather pillows. It
makes me shiver to think of the number of deaths among these precious little
ones, which I have myself seen, where I had no doubt that cool straw pillows
would have saved them. The hair pillow is inferior to straw, because it cannot,
like straw, be made perfectly clean and fresh by frequent change. Do not fail
to keep their little heads cool."

Babies' Bow-legs, and How to Prevent Them.—It is well known that lf bow-legs"
are among the common deformities of humanity, and wise mothers assert that the
crookedness in either case arises from the afflicted one having been put upon
his or her feet too early in babyhood. But a Manchester physician, Dr.
Crompton, who has watched for the true cause, thinks differently. He attributes
the first-mentioned distortion to a habit some youngsters get in of rfibbing
the sole of one foot against that of the other; some will go to sleep with the
soles pressed together; they appear to enjoy the contact only when the feet are
naked; they never attempt to make it when they are socked or slippered. So the
remedy is obvious: keep the baby's soles covered.

Babies' "Knock-knees," and How to Prevent Them.—'-Knockknees," another common
deformity, the physician ascribes to a different childish habit: that of
sleeping on the side, with one knee tucked into the hollow behind the other. He
has found that where one leg has been bowed inwardly more than the other, the
patient has always slept on one side, and the uppermost member has been that
most deformed. Here the preventive is to pad the inside of the knees, so as to
keep them apart, and let the limbs grow freely their own way.

How to Care for Children's Feet.—It has been well said that life-long
discomfort, disease, and sudden death often come to children through the
inattention or carelessness of the parents. A child should never be allowed to
go to sleep with cold feet. The thing to be last attended to is, to see that
the feet are dry and warm. Neglect of this has often resulted in a dangerous
attack of croup, diphtheria, or a fatal sore-throat.

Always, on coming from school, on entering the house from a visit or errand in
rainy, muddy, or thawing weather, the child's shoes should be removed, and the
mother should herself ascertain if the stockings are the least damp; and if so
they should be taken off, the feet held before the fire and rubbed with the
hand till perfectly dry, and another pair of shoes be put on, and the other
shoes and stockings should be placed where they can be dried, so as to be ready
for future use at a moment's notice.

Early Exercise for Children.—They should be much in the open air, and for this
purpose the "baby carriages," now largely introduced into all large towns, are
a great boon to society. All violent exercise should be avoided. Tossing up and
down, or jolting in a chair, is not well, especially during the first months.
In carrying the child around in the arms or carriage, it should be kept in a
horizontal position.

Giving Spirits or Cordials to Babies. - One of the best known and most
successful physicians in America writes: "Spirits given to a baby, or, what is
much the same, drank by the mother, is poison for the body, and may be the
starting of a habit which leads to ruin. Most of the cordials for children are
evil, and only evil, and that continually."

Are Candies Healthful for Children ?—Sugar is not injurious, but should not be
given to children often, or it will lessen or disturb the appetite. Most
candies which are found in the small shops, or which are hawked about the
streets, have been adulterated, and are positively injurious. See chapter on
"Adulteration of Food." Candies should either be*made "at home" or purchased of
an honest dealer. The simpler and milder candies are best.

Children in the Care of Servants.—Remarkable testimony upon this question has
recently been given. Here is the record: A number of physicians, practicing
in*New York and Brooklyn, having "compared notes," have

concluded that one leading cause of the mortality among children arises from
their being left too much to the care of servants. It has been observed that
children who are taken care of by their parents, undressed and put to bed by
them, and by them dressed in the morning, and kept under a loving mother's eye
during the day, are, as a general thing, far more healthy, good-tempered, and
intelligent than such as are left almost exclusively to the care of servants.
In addition to this, it must be remembered that most of the accidents which
happen to children, whereby they are seriously injured, and sometimes crippled,
maimed, and rendered idiotic, occur through the negligence of those in whose
care they are left by unthinking or unloving parents.

Lack of Appetite in Children.—The Boston Journal of Chemistry says that
children must have an abundance of out-door exercise, fun and frolic. Make them
regular in their habits, and feed them only on plain, nourishing food, and they
will seldom, if ever, complain of a lack of appetite. But keep them overtasked
at school, confined close to the house the rest of the tune, frowning down
every attempt at play,, feed them upon rich or high-seasoned food, candies,
nuts, etc., allow them to eat between meals and late in the evening, and you
cannot expect them to have good appetites. On the contrary, you may expect they
will be pale, weak, and sickly. Don't cram them with food when they don't want
it, or have no appetite for it; such a course is slow murder. If they have no
appetite, encourage, and if need be, command them to take exercise in the open
air.

Age, Studies, and Habits of Children at School.—The facility of a Massachusetts
medical college, after carefully considering the influence of public schools
upon the health of children, authorized the publication of the following
opinions:—

1. No child should be allowed to attend school before the beginning of his
sixth year.

2. The duration of daily attendance, including the time given to recess and
physical exercises, should not exceed four and a half hours for primary
schools; five and a half for other schools.

3. There should be no study required out of school—unless at high school; and
this should not exceed one hour.

4. Recess-time should be devoted to play outside the school-room—unless during
stormy weather—and, as this time rightfully belongs to the pupils, they should
not be deprived of it except for serious offenses; and those who are not
deprived of it, should not be allowed to spend it in study; no child should
ever be confined to the school-room during an entire session. The minimum of
recess-time should be fifteen minutes each session, and in primary schools
there should be more than one recess in each session.

6. Physical exercise should be used in school to prevent nervous and muscular
fatigue, and to rdieve monotony, hut not as muscular training. It should be
practiced by both teacher and children in every hour not broken by recess, and
should be timed by music. In primary schools every half hour should be broken
by exercise, recess, or singing.

6. Ventilation should be amply provided for, by other means than by open
windows, though these should be used in addition to special means during recess
and exercise time.

1. Lessons should be scrupulously apportioned to the average capacity of the
pupils; and in primary schools the slate should be used more and the book less;
and the instructions should be given as much as possible on the principle of
"object teaching."

THE SICK-ROOM AND HEALTH.

Light in the Sick-Chamber.—Except in extraordinary cases, light is
indispensable to the best relief of the sick. It should be softened and
subdued, and not glaring. The light should be admitted in large quantities. It
is an element of cheerfulness, and on that account should-be admitted to as
large an extent as the patient can bear without inconvenience. As shown in a
previous chapter, the sun-light has a direct and powerful influence for good
upon the physical system, and on this account, also, its presence should be
regarded as a prime necessity. Blinds or curtains may be provided to screen the
eyes, if the latter are too weak or sensitive to bear the direct rays; but no
substitute can perform its powerful service as a sanitary agent in the sick
chamber.

Cheerful Walls and Cheerful Prospects.—The walls should be. of a cheerful tint;
if possible, some sort of out-door glimpse should be visible from the bed or
chair where the invalid lies, if it is but the top of a tree and a bit of sky.
Eyes which have been traveling for long, dull days over the pattern of the
paper-hangings, till each bud and leaf and quirl is familiar —and
hateful—brighten with pleasure as the blind is raised. The mind, wearied of the
grinding battle with pain and self, finds unconscious lefreshment in the new
interest.

The Inspiration of Pleasant Contrasts.—Ab, there is a bird's shadow litting
across the pane! The tree-top sways and trembles with soft rustlings —a white
cloud floats dreamily over the blue—and now, 0 delight and wonier! the bird
himself comes in sight and perches visibly on the bough, dressing his feathers,
and quivering forth a few notes of song. All the world, then, is not lying in
bed because we are, is not tired of its surroundings—has not the back-ache!
What a refreshing thought! And though this glimpse of another life, the fresh
natural life from which we are shut out—that life which has nothing to do with
pills and potions, tip-toe movements, whispers, and doctors' boots creaking in
the entry—may cause the hot tears to rush suddenly into our eyes, it does us
good, and we begin to say, with a certain tremulous thrill of hope, "When I go
out again I shall do "—so and so. *

The Healthful Influence of Pleasant Variety.—If friends knew how irksome, how
positively harmful, is the sameness of a sick-room, surely love and skill would
devise remedies. If it were only bringing in a blue flower today, and a pink
one to-morrow; hanging a fresh picture to vary the monotony of the wall, or
even an old one in a new place—something, anything—it is such infinite relief.
Small things and single things suffice. To see many of his surroundings changed
at once, confuses an invalid; to have one litt e novelty at a time to vary the
point of observation, stimulates and cheers. Give him that, and you do more and
better than if you filled the apartment with fresh objects.

The Inspiration of Beautiful Flowers.—Many argue that flowers should be
carefully kept away from sick people, lest they exhaust the air, or communicate
to it some harmful quality. This may, in a degree, be true of such strong,
fragrant blossoms as lilacs or garden lilies, but of the more
delicately-scented ones no such effect need be apprehended. A well-aired room
will never be made close or unwholesome by a nosegay of roses, mignonette, or
violets, and the subtle cheer which they bring with them is infinitely reviving
to weary eyes and depressed spirits.

Caution as to Reading Aloud in the Sick-Room.—" With regard to reading aloud in
the sick-room," says Florence Nightingale, "my experience is, that when the
sick are too ill to read to themselves, they can seldom bear to be read to.
Children, eye-patients, and uneducated persons are exceptions, or where there
is any mechanical difficulty in reading. People who like to be read to have
generally not much the matter with them; while in fevers, or where there is
much irritability of brain, the effort of listening to reading aloud has often
brought on delirium. I speak with great diffidence, because there is an almost
universal impression that it is sparing the sick to read aloud to them."

Read Slowly to the Sick.—If the patient desires reading, or if reading aloud is
not trying to the nerves, it should be done slowly. "People often think that
the way to get it over with least fatigue to him is to get it over in least
time. They gabble, they plunge and gallop through the reading. There never was
a greater mistake. Houdin, the conjurer, says that the way to make a story seem
short is to tell it slowly. So it is with reading to the sick.

[ocr errors]

I have often heard a patient say to sueh a mistaken reader, ' Don't read it to
me; tell it me.' Unconsciously he is aware that this will regulate the
plunging, the readmg with unequal paces, slurring over one part, instead of
leaving it out altogether if it is unimportant, and mumbling another."

Read in a Natural, Pleasant, Colloquial Voice.—If the reader lets his own
attention wander, and then stops to read up to himself, or finds he has read
the wrong bit, then it is all over with the poor patient's chance of not
suffering. Very few people know how to read to the sick; very few read aloud as
pleasantly even as they speak. In reading they sing, they hesitate, they
stammer, they hurry, they mumble; when in speaking they do none of these
things. Reading aloud to the sick ought always to be rather slow, and
exceedingly distinct, but not mouthing; rather monotonous, but not sing-song;
rather loud, but not noisy.

Evil of Reading Aloud Only Fragmentary Paragraphs.—The extraordinary habit of
reading to one's self in a sick-room, and reading aloud to the patient any
sentences which will amuse him, is exceedingly thoughtless. What does such a
reader think the patient is thinking of during his gaps of non-reading? Do you
think that the patient amuses himself upon what you have read for precisely the
time it pleases you to go on reading to yourself, and that his attention is
ready for something else at precisely the time it pleases you to begin reading
again? Whether the person thus read to be sick or well; whether he be doing
nothing, or doing something else while being thus read to, the self-absorption
and want of observation of the person who does it, is equally difficult to
understand—although very often the patient is too amiable to say how much it
disturbs him.

Evil of a Rough Voice in the Sick-Room. — Many attendants or visitors have
little intelligent care as to their voice in the sick-room. A person sometimes
has a rough, stentorian voice, and forgets to control it, or mellow it when
using it in the presence of the sick. The sick cannot endure, either, the rough
or ever "thundering" voice, and will be likely to say, at least in a whisper,
when the visitor has gone away: "Never let that man come to me again; never let
him enter the door again; his voice was enough to distract my poor head; I
cannot endure it.

Evil of an Indistinct Voice in the Sick-Room.—The other extreme is also a real
evil. The attendants speak gently enough, it may be, yet so indistinctly that
the poor patient cannot understand what is said. The latter is worn out and
distracted with the nervous effort to lay hold of some precious instruction and
spiritual comfort, perhaps from the minister, which he strives in vain to
understand. A little care upon the part of the speaker will enable him to
adjust his voice so as not to tax the nerves of the sick man. Distinct, ness is
very great value under such circumstances.

Great Tenderness of Manner Required.—A man lying on a bed of sickness must be
treated with a great deal of tenderness and consideration in regard to voice
and manner, as well as in regard to the matter and measure of the instruction
which you give him. And if a truly consistent Christian comes in to visit him,
and his voice is so gentle that it does not disturb him by a loudness which he
cannot bear, and, at the lame time, is so distinct that, without difficulty, he
can catch every word that is spoken, the impression will be quite different. He
says, when his instructor is gone, "O, what a nice gentleman that was! How soft
and gentle his voice was! and yet so clear and distinct that without the least
difficulty I could understand every word that he said. Whenever he comes let me
see him."

How to Move a Patient.—Sometimes, when patients are greatly exhausted, or after
severe surgical operations, it may be dangerous to bring them into a sitting
position, but they may be safely and easily moved if the body is kept
horizontal in the following manner: Place the head of one bedstead against the
foot of the other. Having procured two hard-wood poles six feet long and one
and a half inches in diameter, place one on each side of the patient near the
edge of the sheet on which he rests, and roll them firmly into the sheet to
within six inches of the patient's body. Two persons should stand on each side
of the bed, facing the two on the other side, and grasping the poles firmly
with both hands, separated about eighteen inches apart, they should first pull
firmly against each other until the sheet on which the patient lies is
converted into a stretcher. Then continue to pull, and lifting the body
horizontally and moving downward together, they easily deposit the patient in
the fresh bed, without danger or suffering. The sheet on which he has been
moved can then be readily slipped out from beneath the body. It is astonishing
with what ease a thing can be done when done in the right way.

Heat and Ventilation in the Sick-Room.—Where the entire dwelling is heated by a
furnace, or by steam, it will probably be unnecessary to have other means of
warming the sick-room; but the fire-place should be always open, and kept ready
for a wood or a coal fire whenever the patient shall express a desire for one.
The fire-places are excellent ventilating flues even without a fire, but are
nearly perfect when supplied with a wood fire, the brisk blaze of which creates
a strong ascending current, and continually carries off the ever-accumulating
exhalations of the sick-room. If there is no fire-place, a window opened a
short distance from the bottom, in the room in which the patient is lying, and
one let down from the top in the other large room, with the doors opened
between the two, will form an effectual draught during any but the warm days of
summer, and will not be too strong for the most delicate patient who is
protected from the direct draught by the high head-board of the bed. In cold
weather the window opened from the bottom

will often be found sufficient. On very cold days we may trust to an entire
change of air several times each day, effected by raising all the windows for a
few moments at a time, during which the patient must be thoroughly protected by
extra blankets and a shawl about the head.

Cleanliness and Neatness in the Sick-room.—The aphorism that "Cleanliness is
next to godliness," is nowhere more imperative than in the sick-ioom.
Cleanliness absolutely enforced will stamp out any infectious disease, and
mitigate all diseases to a marked degree. In enforcing cleanliness in the
sick-room we must look to the patient's bed, the patient's body, the nurse, and
all utensils, vessels, etc. In the model sick-room there should be two narrow
beds of equal height on easy-rolling castors, having hair mattresses, low
headboards, and absolutely free from all abominations iu the way of canopies.
The patient may thus have a fresh bed for the night and another for the
morning. In the morning the freshly-made bed, covered with one sheet, can be
trundled up to the bed which has been occupied during the night, and the
patient can easily be slid on the same level on to a deliciously fresh bed. The
mattress and bedding of the bed vacated can be rolled up, quietly taken into an
adjoining room, where, with open windows, they can be shaken, thoroughly
ventilated during the day, and made ready for the night.

Directions in Contagious Sickness.—The following general directions are useful
for nurses and others in contagious or infectious sickness:—

1. 'The sick person should be restricted to one room, or a part of the house
separated from the other inmates.

2. Secure proper ventilation of the sick-room, without producing draughts.
Smell is an excellent guide as to the state of air; if the air is sweet there
is but little dread to be felt.

3. The virulence of any poison which causes the spread of disease is greatly
increased by concentration in close rooms, and decreased by dilution and free
circulation of air.

4. The linen, clothing, bedding, utensils, and every object touched by or in
contact with the sick, should be isolated, and, such as will permit, should be
thrown into boiling water, there to remain at least for half an hour.

5. The nurse should be restricted to the sick-room or otherwise isolated.

6. Remember that disease is communicated by both the poisoned air about the
sick, and by the clothes and other articles used or touched by them.

1. After the patient leaves the sick-room, it should be purified and
disinfected. Boil every thing that will admit of it; scald all utensils; scrub
the floors; whitewash ceiling and walls. Empty the room entirely, and leave
doors and windows open for at least a day or two.

Important Qualities of a Good Nurse.—A good nurse will be full of kindness. She
will control by gentleness combined with decision. She will be most decisive if
no one suspects that she is so at all. It is the triumph of supremacy to become
unconsciously supreme. Nowhere is this decision more blessed than in a
sick-room.* Where it exists in its genuineness the sufferer is never
contradicted, never coerced; all the little victories are assumed. The decisive
nurse is never peremptory, never loud. She is distinct, it is true—there is
nothing more aggravating to a sick person than a whisper —but she is not loud.
Though quiet, she never walks on tip-toe; she nevei makes gestures; all is open
and above-board. She knows no diplomacy ol finesse, and of course her shoes
never creak. Her Touch is steady and encouraging. She does not potter. She
never looks at you sidewaps. You never catch her watching. She never slams the
door, of course, but she never shuts it slowly, as if she were cracking a nut
in the hinge. She never talks behind it. She never peeps. She pokes the fire
skillfully, with firm, judicious penetration. She caresses one kind of patient
with genuine sympathy; she talks to another as if she were well. She is never
in a hurry. She is worth her weight in gold.

Twenty-oneBrief Suggestions to Nurses.—Be scrupulously neat in person and
dress. % Be cheerful and buoyant to the last degree possible.

A few drops of hartshorn in the water used for daily bathing will remove the
disagreeable odors of warmth and perspiration.

Never speak of the symptoms of your patient in his presence, unless questioned
by the doctor, whose orders you are always to obey implicitly.

Remember never to be a gossip or tattler, and "always to hold sacred the
knowledge which, to a certain extent, you must obtain of the private affairs of
your patient, and the household in which you nurse."

Try to give as little trouble to the servants as possible, and make them feel
that you have come to help them in the extra work that sickness always brings.

Never contradict your patient, nor argue with him.

Never let your patient see that you are annoyed about any thing.

Never whisper in the sick-room. If your patient be well enough, and wishes you
to talk to him, speak in a low, distinct voice, on cheerful subjects.

Don't relate painful hospital experiences, nor give details of the maladies of
former patients.

Never startle the patient with accounts of dreadful crimes or accidents that
you have read in the newspapers.

Write down the orders that the physician gives you as to time for giving the
medicines, food, etc.

Give an account of your patient to the physician in as few words as possible.

* Good Health.

Keep the room bright (unless the doctor orders it darkened).

Let the air be as pure as possible, giving it fresh supplies from outside.

Keep every thing in order, but without being fussy and bustling.

To remove dust, wipe every thing with a damp cloth.'

Remember to carry out all vessels covered. Empty and wash them immediately, and
keep some disinfectant in them.

Remember, that to leave the patient's untasted food by his side from meal to
meal, in hopes that he will eat it in the interval, is simply to prevent him
from taking any food at all.

Medicines, beef-tea, or stimulants, should never be kept where the patient can
see them, or smell them.

Remember "that we have no power of ourselves to help ourselves," but that God
is ever willing to grant us strength to perform our duties, if we pray to him
in the name of our Blessed Saviour.

ALCOHOL AND HEALTH.

Alcohol Cannot be Classed as Food.—Omitting in this connection all reference to
the social and moral relations of this question, we invite attention to its
hygienic aspects. The highest medical and chemical authorities now indorse the
conclusion that alcohol is not a food, but a poison, like opium, and a
substance abhorrent to the human economy; that it does not in the slightest
degree nourish the body, or even prevent the wa%te of tissue, but that it
arrests digestion, destroys the appetite, lessens muscular force and vital
heat, excites the lower passions, predisposes the drinker to disease, and
retards his recovery.

Liebig's Testimony.—Professor Liebig has shown that alcohol contains no element
which can be converted into nutriment; and the experiments of MM. Lallemand,
Perrin, Duroy, Dr. Edward Smith, and other physiologists, demonstrate that
alcohol is ejected from the system in the state in which it is introduced, no
trace of any derivative of alcohol being found in the blood; therefore, no
quantity of alcohol can be of benefit to healthy persons; on the contrary, it
must, in every case, exercise a poisonous influence.

Dr. Richardson's and Prof. Silliman's Testimony.—Prof. Silliman, M.D., of Yale
Medical Institute, quotes Dr. Richardson's conclusion on this question, after
thorough investigation, as follows: "Speaking honestly, I cannot, by any
argument yet presented to me, admit the alcohols through any gate that might
distinguish them as separate from other chemical bodies. I can no more accept
them as foods than. I can chloroform, or ether, or methylal. That they produce
temporary excitement is true, but as their general action is quickly to reduce
animal heat, I cannot see how they can supply animal force. I see clearly how
they reduce animal power, and can show a reason for using them in order to stop
physical or to stupefy mental pain; but that they give strength, that is, that
they supply material for the construction of fine tissue, or throw force into
tissue supplied by other material, must be an error as solemn as it is
wide-spread."

Alcohol not the Source of Physical Force.—The authority quoted above, adds:
"The true place of the alcohols is clear; they are agreeable temporary shrouds.
The savage, with the mansions of his soul unfurnished, buries his restless
energy under their shadow. The civilized man, overburdened with mental labor,
or with engrossing care, seeks the same shade, but it is shade after all, in
which, in exact proportion as he seeks it, the seeker retires from perfect
natural life. To search for force in alcohol is to my mind equivalent to the
act of searching for the sun in subterranean gloom until all is night."

Similar Testimony from Others.—Hundreds of testimonies similar in their
teachings have been given. "It seems doubtful," says Dr. T. K. Chambers, "if on
the healthy nervous system alcohol is ever a stimulant, even in the most
moderate dose, and for the shortest periods of time." In another part of his
work, on "Renewal of Life," Dr. Chambers says, "It is clear that we must cease
to regard alcohol as in any sense an aliment, inasmuch as it goes out as it
went in, and does not, as far as we know, leave any of its substance behind."
Dr. Edward Smith, F.R.S., asserts that " alcohol is not true food; and it
neither warms nor sustains the body." *

Does Alcohol Help Digestion ?—Alcohol is said to increase the flow of the
gastric secretions when used in moderate quantities, and so to promote the
digestion of food. The limit, however, to its acting thus is a very restricted
one. If used in any quantity it never fails to irritate the lining membrane of
the stomach, and so produce the very opposite effect to that stated; a small
quantity, however, soon loses the effect sought; as the amount is increased the
deterioration which over-stimulation is certain to induce is brought on, and
the terrible indigestion of the tippler is established.

Alcohol Useless in Nearly All Cases.—Put against the above the resets of
accredited and intelligent experience and observation, that in the long run of
surgical ailments no aid is required from stimulants, but, on the contrary,
these complaints " arc much better managed without alcohol."

A Distinguished Surgeon Uses Alcohol in Only One Case out of Fifty!—"At this
moment," says Dr. Macleod, "at the moment I address

* Alcohol An Anesthetic.—In a paper upon " The Use and Abuso of Alcoholic
Liquors," Dr. "W. L. Schenck supports with considerable ability the idea that
alcohol is neither a food nor a Ktbmilant, but a true anaesthetic.

you I have under my care more than fifty surgical cases, and only one—and she
is a very weakly woman, with blood poisoning—is taking alcohol. Among the cases
I allude to are many who have undergone serious operations, and many old and
feeble people. I mention this to show that, while I resolutely defend the use
of alcohol in certain cases, I am but little given to its administration in the
usual practice of my profession.

Patients Require Food Rather than Stimulants.—If food of a nourishing and
concentrated kind can be taken and assimilated, that is what will recuperate
our patients and prolong their lives. Alas, it is the want of this power of
assimilation which baffles us so frequently in dealing with disease, and that 
is not unfrequently the offspring of previous intemperance.

Careless Use of Alcohol Dangerous.—We cannot be too strenuous in warning
persons against the careless way in which too much stimulant is prescribed in
the sick-room. Occasionally one hears friends told to "be good to the patient,"
or to take care and "keep up his system," or to "stimulate him freely." No such
lax and injudicious instructions should ever be given, but the exact quantity
scrupulously laid down, and care taken that it is adhered to. Weak, nervous,
worn-out persons will put a very liberal interpretation on any mere general
instruction, and thus you come to discover that food is neglected for
alcohol—truly, "One halfpennyworth of bread to this intolerable deal of sack."
Never allow the bottle containing the stimulant to be kept in the sick room,
but let the precise amount to be consumed in the twenty-four hours be put into
a separate phial, so that its progressive use may be judged of accurately.

Alcohol a Brain Poison.—Science has shown that alcohol has a special affinity
for tht brain. On its introduction into the system it rushes to that vital
organ, and makes there its first and most powerful assault upon life. If the
quantity is sufficient it causes instant death.

In common doses it produces disturbances ranging from trifling congestion to
delirium tremens. It literally hardens the brain. A professor of surgery
assured his class that he could tell the brain of a drunkard in the dark by
passing the dissecting knife through it.

An agent classed by all toxicologists with deadly poison, that has an affinity
for the brain so strong that it crowds not only the channels of the
circulation, but the substance of the brain itself, cannot fail to produce
serious disturbances in the delicate organ of thought. And facts agree. Brain
diseases, such as congestion, paralysis, apoplexy, epilepsy, and insanity, are
caused or aggravated by intoxicating drinks to a fearful extent.

Alcoholic Rheumatism.—A writer in the British Medical Jovrnal thus alludes to a
disease, new in name if not new in experience, in this country.

1. Alcoholic rheumatism is the result of a distinct cause.

2. It is produced by drinking alcoholic beverages.

8. It is slow in effecting a marked change in the system.

4. It does not usually appear before middle life.

5. Its effects are produced by the accumulation of the alcoholic fluids taken
into the system.

6. It causes stupidity, stiffness in the body, hobbling gait, and ul imate
lameness.

1. It causes changes of structure and produces chronic alcoholism. 8. The
remedy is abstinence from the use of all fermented alcoholic drinks and taking
vigorous exercise in the open air.

How Alcoholic Drinks Cause Apoplexy.—It is the essential nature of all wines
and spirits to send an increased amount of blood to the brain. The first effect
of taking a glass of wine or stronger form of alcohol is to send the blood
there faster than common, hence the circulation that gives the red face. It
increases the activity of the brain, and it works faster, and so does the
tongue. But suppose a man keeps on drinking, the blood is sent to the brain so
fast, in such large quantities, that in order to make room foi it the arteries
have to enlarge themselves; they increase in size, and in doing so they press
against the more yielding and flaccid veins which carry the blood out of the
brain, and thus diminish their size, their pores, the result being that the
blood is not only carried to the arteries of the brain faster than is natural
or healthful, but it is prevented from leaving it as fast as usual; hence a
double set of causes of death are in operation. A man may drink enough brandy
or other spirits in a few hours, or in a few minutes, to brmg on a fatal attack
of apoplexy.

No Risk in Disusing Alcohol Suddenly'and Fully.—It is a very gratifying fact
that there is no risk in withdrawing alcohol at once and fully from inebriates.
Indeed, this is generally the only method very hopeful in the direction of
recovery. "Half-measures always fail. Let it be absolutely forbidden in any
form and quantity, and though I am not very sanguine as to success in the case
of confirmed drunkards, yet for those less hopelessly abandoned there is, by
following rigid abstinence, a chance of reform. Nourishing, fatty food, sugar,
plenty of fresh air, and mental enjoyment, will help to wean the victim from
his poison."

Physicians Should Especially Promote Abstinence from Alcohol.—" The medical
profession may do much to promote temperance, and it is its bounden duty to
exercise its wide-spread influence to such a good end. One of the most painful
sights ever seen, was the graves of three young medical practitioners, all
victims to intemperance, which lay side by side, on the sunny slope of a
Highland hill, beneath the shadow of an ancient cross, which had been erected
by the self-denying Anchorites of the early faith. One after another, they had
gone to practice their divine art, and, in suecession, fell victims to their
self-indulgence, a melancholy picture of neglected talents and wasted lives."

Testimony of a Great Surgeon.—"Gentlemen," said the same lecturer, "let us
determine that we will avoid all such vices, and fulfill the old promise which
Hippocrates, the father of surgical science, imposed on his disciples, (and
which is almost exactly reproduced in the declaration you will all sign on
graduation here.) 'I will follow that system of regimen which, according to my
ability and judgment, I consider for the benefit of my patients, and abstain
from whatever is deleterious or mischievous. I will give no deadly medicine to
any one, if asked, or suggest any such counsel, and, with purity and holiness, 
I will pass my life and practice ray art.' These are, indeed, noble words—which
were the sentiments of a Pagan, but they would do honor to the most exalted
Christian."

Inconsiderate Prescription of Alcoholic Liquors by Physicians '—Testimony of
300 Leading Physicians. — The following opportune document, signed by three
hundred of the leading physicians of London, appeared in the papers of that
city just before Christmas:—

As it is believed that the Inconsiderate prescription of large quantities of
alcoholic liquid by medical men for their patients has given rise, in many
instances, to the formation of Intemperate habits, the undersigned, while
unable t>> abandon the use of alcohol in the treatment of certain cases of
disease, are yet of opinion that no medical practitioner should prescribe it
without a senBe of grave responsibility.

They believe that alcohol, in whatever form, suou'd be prescribed with as much
care as any powerful drug, and that the directions for its use should be so
framed as not to be interpreted as a sanction for excess, or necessarily for
the continuance of its use when the occasion is past. They are also of opitton
that many peoplo imment'ely exaggerate the value of alcohol as an article of
diet . and since no c^ass of men see so much of its ill effects, and possess
such power to restrain its abuse, as members of their own profession, they hold
tiiat every medical practitioner is bound to exert his utmost influence to
inculcate habits of great moderation in the use of alcoholic liquids.

Being also firmly convinced that the great amount of drinking of alcoholic
liquors among the working classes of this country is one of the greatest evils
of the day. destroying— more than anything else—the health, happiness, and
welfare of those classes, and neutralizing, to a large extent, the great
industrial prosperity which Providence has placed within the reach of this
nation, the undersigned would gladly support any wise legislation which would
tend to restrict, within proper limits, the use of alcoholic beverages, and
gradually introduce habits of temperance. George Burrows, M.D., F.R.S.,
President of the Koyal College of Physicians, Physician Extraordinary to the
Queen; George Busk, F.R.S., President of the Koyal College of Surgeons, and
others.

General Physiological Effects of Alcohol.—A valuable paper was furnished
recently at a meeting of one of our State Medical Associations, in which, after
discussing thoroughly the whole question of the physiological effects of
alcoholic beverages, the author gave the following, among other conclusions,
which he had reached in his researches:—

1. Alcohol, when present in the blood, causes fatty degeneration of the organs.

2. It dilates the blood vessels, and increases the force and frequency of the
heart, by its action on the nervous centers. It does not give additional
strength, but merely enables a man to draw on his reserve energy. It may thus
give assistance in a single effort, but not in prolonged exertion.

3. It has the same effect upon the action of the heart.

4. By dilating the vessels of the skin, alcohol warms the surface at the
expense of the internal organs.

5. The symptoms of intoxication are due to paralysis of the nervous system. It
is through paralysis of the medulla that alcohol usually causes death. «

6. The apparent immunity possessed by drunken men from the usual effects of
serious accident, is due to paralysis of the nervous mechanism through which
shock could be produced in a sober condition.

Alcoholic Drinks Greatly Shorten Life.—A celebrated French physician, Dr.
Everat, has furnished statistics showing that the mortality from this cause is
annually 50,000 in England, 40,000 in Germany, 15,000 in Russia, 4,000 in
Belgium, 3,000 in Spain, and 15,000 in France. Notwithstanding the universality
of this vice among nearly all classes of society, few persons are aware of how
materially human life is abbreviated by the use of alcohol.

Interesting Illustrative Statistics.—Mr. F. G. P. Nelson, an actuary, of
London, from a series of careful observations, has deduced some valuable
statistics regarding this subject, which prove that the average duration of
life, after beginning the use of liquor as a beverage, is as follows: Among
beerdrinkers, 21'7 years; among spirit-drinkers, 16'7 years; among those who
drink spirits indiscriminately, 16'1 years. The death-rate among different
drinkers Mr. Nelson found to be: Among beer-drinkers, 4 597 per cent, yearly;
among spirit-drinkers, 5'996 per cent, yearly; among mixed-drinkers, 6'194 per
cent, yearly.

Table Showing the Comparative Expectation of Life for Drink

kers.—The subjoined table, prepared by Nelson, contrasts the "Expectation of
Life" for temperate and intemperate persons:—

[table]

The expectation of ]iquor-drinkers, from the time of becoming such, varies with
the vocation:

Among mechanics, working and laboring men 18 years.

Among traders, dealers, and merchants 17"

Among professional men and gentlemen 15"

Among females .14"

It will be noticed that professional men addicted to strong drink, are shorter
lived than drinkers of other pursuits.

Why Some Liquor-Drinkers Have Long Lives.—While the above tables, carefully
compiled, show the average of the lives of liquor-drink ers to be much less
than that of the abstemious, tRere are occasional instances in which even the
intemperate live to old age. Certain physical constitutions become transformed
in the functional condition of the system, so that they live on in an abnormal
way, enduring, and even enjoying, a poisonous physical condition. Some persons
seem to enjoy better health in a malarious atmosphere than out of it. Their
bodies have undergone the transformation of "acclimation." In exceptional
cases, such persons may survive, even to old age. The average, however, is in
the other direction. No man has a right to place himself in the small
prospective list of exceptions.

Alcoholic Intemperance Hereditary.—It is now well-known that intemperance
becomes hereditary, and begets various forms of insanity. Dr. George H. B.
Macleod, F.R.S.E., Regius Professor of Surgery in the University of Glasgow,
and Surgeon in Ordinary to the Queen, in an address on the subject of alcohol
in the treatment of the sick, says, concerning the question of inheriting a
taste for alcohol: "We perceive, in dealing with the children of intemperate
persons, their ailments, mental and corporeal, not unfrequently take a
complexion of their own from the habits of the parents. The low vitality, the
stunted growth, the late maturity, the epileptic seizures, the hydrocephalus,
and numerous other morbid conditions met with, occasionally own the
intemperance of the progenitor as their cause."

Darwin Confirms this View.—Darwin writes more strongly on this point. He says:
"It is remarkable, that all the diseases that spring from drinking spirituous
and fermented liquors are liable to become hereditary, even to the third
generation, gradually increasing, if the cause be continued, till the cause
becomes extinct."

Hereditary Drunkenness Illustrated.—Not more pitiful are the approaches of
madness than are the well-understood symptoms which signify to the hereditary
drunkard the hour of his inherited passion. "I knew in Texas," says a
correspondent, "a young man who was heir to such a woeful heritage. He was
physically one of the handsomest of men, and possessed of great and varied
talents, which he had carefully cultivated. Moreover, he had served his country
with distinguished bravery, and was then holding a high position of trust and
honor.

"But, with a regularity that was terrible, there came to him—no matter where he
was, over his ledger, in the church, by the side of the woman he loved—a
craving for brandy that possessed him like a demon, and drove him forth from
among his fellows.

"With set lips and despairing face he would deliver to a friend the keys of his
office, and betake himself to his room—not as men go to a carousal, but as they
go to meet a fearful reckoning—and for two or three days drink in sullen
silence, till the craving was appeased. Some one was one day praising, in his
presence, his vast stores of acquired information, and his delicate fancy as an
artist.

"' Yet I shall die like a'brute,' he said, sadly; and the despairing look of a
hunted animal came into his eye, as he added: 'My father died drunk; my mother,
too, (God forgive her!); my grandfather shot himself in delirium tremens. You
know, boys, how poor Patrick died; it will be the same with me.' His prophecy
was too soon fulfilled."

Great Peril in Using Alcohol as Medicine.—There is always a very great risk in
prescribing spirituous liquors as a medicine, to be used even in small
quantities. The history of many a young man shows that, insidiously, the habit
grows and the appetite becomes intensified. Multitudes die annually because of
the tyrannical power of habits formed while using alcoholic stimulants as a
medicine. Physicians, surgeons, and nurses cannot be too cautious in
prescribing alcohol.

Sad Results of Prescribing Alcohol.—A pastor furnishes the following narrative:
"Some time since, a person who had been for a long period iu feeble health, but
was of excellent moral character and amiable disposition, recovered from his
enfeebled state, and was able to resume his calling in life. It was found,
however, to the dismay of his young and lovely wife, and to the bitter grief of
his friends, that he was rapidly falling into habits of intemperance, and at
length of open and shameless drunkenness. No entreaties of those nearest and
dearest to him seemed to be of any avail to stop his dreadful course.

"As the pastor and friend of his family, we were apprised of the melancholy
state of things, and besought to use all the influence possible to reclaim and
save the sadly-erring and falling man. His business was soon neglected, and at
length given up; self-respect was lost; want, that had never been known in his
home, began to be felt. For a long time now, never had he read the chapter, or
bowed the knee in prayer at the family altar, as had been his custom in the
early days of his happy married life; and never now did he come to

the house of God. There was an entire change in the circumstances and habits,
disposition and character, of the man."

Fruitless Efforts for Recovery.—" As requested, and drawn by a fond desire to
do him good, and bring gladness and hope again to that now sad family, we
repeatedly saw and conversed and prayed with the changed and unhappy man. When
free from the influence of strong drink, he would freely talk with us, at times
confess his folly and sin, weep most bitter tears, and make promises almost
with the intense earnestness of a desperate man, that he would never touch the
accursed drink again. And as we would bow together in prayer for the grace that
alone could sustain in keeping from the terrible evil and in doing the right,
he would add his most emphatic Amen to the petition. Yet, ere long, he would
fall again as low or lower than before, and thus continued reforming and
retailing, and becoming more and more the utter wreck and ruin of himself,
until at length he died a terrible death."

The Victim's Sorrowful Experience.—" Now, what was the history of this terrible
change in that man? This was a question that we often pondered, and after
vainly seeking for some time an account of it from himself, he one day spoke in
substance as follows: 'Up to the time of my long declining health no man ever
had a greater abhorrence of the drunkard's cup and the drunkard's curse than I;
never Was ardent spirits in any form put into my mouth, and in no sense had I
the slightest desire for it. But,' said he, 'after I had been ailing some time,
my physician directed me to procure a particular kind of ardent spirits, and
take a portion of it every day. I hesitated, however, about it, not from any
particular fear, but because I could not bear the taste of it. But he insisted
it would do my system good; so we obtained it, and I began to drink it. The
effect seemed beneficial, and my physician told me to continue to take it. The
repugnance I had to it gradually wore off, and finding it exhilarated me and
made me feel better, I more and more willingly took it, and after a time would
look forward with pleasure, and even longing, for the appointed season or hour
for taking it, and thus it went on; but,' said he, with an awful pause, and a
look of indescribable agony and despair, 'why shall I tell you any more? You
see the beginning, and here I am a slave to a habit, and a doomed man. I have
tried to stop— O, God only knows how hard I have tried ! — but I cannot. The
desire for it comes upon me at times with an overpowering force, and I matt 
have it— I must, I Must!' and he rushed from the room.

"It was not long after this he died, and sad were the thoughts and feelings of
the funeral day."

Dr. Rush's Noble Testimony.—Strong and noble, and even stately, was the course
of the excellent Dr. Benjamin Rush in this matter. Long before the temperance
reform, a missionary from the West Indies sought medical advice of Dr. Rush,
and when an unpalatable medicine was presented, the patient asked if he could
not take a little "good old Jamaica" with it. "No, sir," the doctor decidedly
replied.

"Why, sir, what harm will it do?" demanded the West Indian.

"What harm will it do?" continued Dr. Rush. "I am determined that no man shall
rise on the day of judgment and say, 'Dr. Rush made me a drunkard.'"

Drinking Paroxysms: Periodic Attacks.—In some cases the drinking paroxysms come
on suddenly and after considerable periods of abstinence. Sometimes there is no
premonition, but more frequently there is an alteration in appearance and
temper that forewarns those who have any thing to do with the patient. In the
case of a married man, the wife can almost always tell when an attack is coming
on. The length of these attacks varies very much, more especially according to
the duration of the disease in the patient. In the early history of the
disease, the drinking bouts often last from one to three weeks, and during that
time the patient is constantly drinking. As he cannot get the quantities of
liquor that he requires outside anywhere, he takes to drinking in his own rooms
or house. Nothing will stop him. If his friends or servants try to get him to
leave off, he storms and rages and terrifies them into submission to his ways
and wants.

The Excuse for these Periodic Paroxysms.—His excuse for drinking is always that
he is excessively weak and nervous and requires support, and that it is
absolutely necessary for his life that he should have stimulants. His appetite
soon disappears, and he only makes vain efforts to partake of any food that is
brought to him. Great sleeplessness and restlessness comes on, and, in fact,
the patient is often on the verge of delirium tremens when the disease abates,
either gradually or suddenly, and he gets fairly well. ,

Sudden End of the Drinking Paroxysms.—When it ends suddenly, it is generally
from an attack of acute or subacute gastritis, for which he requires and seeks
medical aid. The craving for drink having also disappeared, he willingly
submits to medical direction, and under judicious treatment recovers. When the
attacks go off gradually, there are less severe gastric symptoms, and the
craving having become less, there is a diminution in the gastric and nervous
troubles.

Increase of the Paroxysms.—After patients have lived for several years with
these periodical attacks, the duration of attack diminishes in length, and they
increase in frequency; the cause of this being chiefly due to the effects on
the gastric system. The stomach much sooner resents the large quantities of
alcohol put into it, and consequently the drinking fits are cut short by
attacks of gastritis, and often also enteritis. But from the attack being
shorter,

i

the interval of diminution in drinking also becomes shorter, so that the
patient gradually goes from bad to worse.

How Alcohol Injures the Physical System.—Dr. X. S. Davis having instituted a
series of sphygmograpbic observations of the effects of alcohol on the
circulation, thus sums up the results in the Chicago Medical Examiner.—

1. Its presence in the blood directly interferes with the normal play of vital
affinities and cell action in such a manner as to diminish the rapidity of
nutrition and disintegration, and consequently to diminish the dependent
functions of elimination, calorification, and innervation; thereby making a
positive organic sedative, instead of a diffusable stimulant, as is popularly
supposed, both in and out of the profession.

2. That the alcohol itself acts in the system exclusively as a foreign
substance incapable of assimilation or decomposition by the vital functions,
and is ultimately excreted or eliminated without chemical change.

The important bearing of these conclusions on the therapeutic and hygienic uses
of alcoholic drinks must be obvious to all, and especially demands the careful
attention of every member of the medical profession.

Patent "Bitters" are Strong Liquors Drugged.—Nearly all the patent "bitters "
are strong liquors drugged and doctored, and labeled medicine, for the sake of
those whose appetites are stronger than their temperance principles, and who
want their daily dram without being known as even "moderate drinkers." The
wine-bottle of the side-board is better than the bitterbottle in the closet;
or, in other words, it is better to drink openly at meals than to drink
irregularly and in secret between meals. It is better to drink honest wine than
hypocritical bitters.*

Patent " Bitters" the Worst Form of Alcohol.—" If one must drink alcoholic
liquors," said a distinguished physician to us lately, "let him drink them
pure, not drugged with nameless poisons, and passed off on the community on
false pretenses." Of all temperate drinking the drinking of bitters is the most
dangerous. And he who gets his prescription for indigestion from the
advertising columns of the newspapers, no matter how conclusive the
indorsements, nor how respectable the journal, may be morally sure that he is
getting gin, whiskey, or rum, under pretense of medicine.

"Cure of Drunkenness."—The first business of the intelligent attendant should
be to shut off the supply of liquor, and the second to get the terrible poison
out of the patient's system. The former work may be done at once; the latter
will require considerable time, the length being proportioned to the extent of
the inroads made upon the physical system, and to the thoroughness of the
remedial treatment. .

* Christian Weekly.

The "Tapering-off System" Exploded.—The most rigid experiments show that it is
better to stop the liquor supply at once, instead of gradually diminishing the
amount used until all is banished. An eminent physician, after carefully
testing both the "gradual stoppage" and the "sudden stoppage" systems, gives
the following opinion: "lam firmly convinced that the latter has every
advantage over the former, and especially in those cases in which, at first
appearance, it seemed that in cutting off at once the entire supply there would
be the greatest peril."

Treatment of Inebriates in Delirium Tremens.—In the "Archives Generates de
Medicines," November, 1871, Dr. Decaisne wrote: "The use of opium in the
treatment of delirium tremens is not unattended with danger on account of the
large doses which it becomes necessary to arrive at progressively in the
majority of cases. I resolved to submit a certain number of patients to an
entirely expectant plan of treatment, to determine whether simple regime and a
withholding of the cause of the disease would give a result similar to those
caused by the principal medicinal agents recommended for this disease. Eight
patients were submitted to the following regime: entire abstinence from wine
and spirits: Some beer and an infusion of orange leaves were given as drinks.
The diet was low; a warm bath was given every day, and every morning each
patient took a purgative draught containing sulphate of magnesia. This mode of
treatment is capable of being often used with advantage.

Delirium tremens must be carefully treated, in a way to restore physical
strength speedily. If there is vomiting, give lime-water and milk, one
teaspoonful of the former to two or three of the latter, with a small piece of
ice given every fifteen minutes for two hours. If this fails, then a large
mustard plaster, should be given, applied over the abdomen, and the remedy
first named repeated. As soon as the stomach will bear it, beef-tea should be
given at short intervals, beginning with a tablespoonful and increasing
gradually to a teacupful as needed; it can be seasoned with black pepper, salt,
and a small pinch of ground cloves. Chicken-tea will sometimes be borne more
readily than beef-tea. From fluids we can soon pass on to something more solid,
such as eggs, toast, mutton-chops, etc.

What to Avoid.—Two things are to be especially avoided in treatment. 1. The use
of tobacco* in any form; and 2. Water, except in limited quantities; although
the thirst for it may be very great, there is danger in gratifying it. Medical
tinctures should not be used; hop-tea, wormwood-tea, capsicum, and
highly-seasoned soups can be dispensed with as tending to keep up a desire for
drink. Tobacco must be entirely avoided.

•Statistics show that ninety-four per cent. >/ inebriates use tobacco.

Sleep and food are the main restoratives in the treatment, and the remedies
should be directed to produce sleep, and enable the victim to take proper
nourishment and food. A convalescent inebriate possesses usually a great
appetite and rapidly gains flesh, and is hungry for his meals for weeks, after
baring starved his system on alcohol.

TOBACCO AND HEALTH.

Effects of Tobacco on the System.—Some years ago, the French Government
directed the Academy of Medicine to inquire into the influence of tobacco on
the human system. The report of the commission appointed by the Academy states
that a large number of the diseases of the nervous system and of the heart,
noticed in the cases of those affected with paralysis or insanity, were to be
regarded as the sequence of excessive indulgence in the use of this article.
The report also stated that tobacco seems primarily to act upon the organic
nervous system, depressing the faculties, and influencing the nutrition of the
body, the circulation of the blood, and the number of red corpuscles in the
blood. Attention was also called to the bad digestion, benumbed intelligence,
and clouded memory of those who use tobacco to excess.

Another Testimony.—A late article in the Journal of Science Review gives us the
mischievous results of the use of tobacco, as shown by many experiments, and
sums up as follows:—

"Tobacco adds no potential strength to the human frame. Its work is
destruction, and not construction. It cannot add one molecule to the plasm out
of which our bodies are built up. On the contrary, it exerts upon it a most
deleterious influence. It does not supply, but it diminishes, vital force.
Tobacco belongs to the class of narcotic and exciting substances. It has no
food value. Stimulation means abstracted, not added, force. It evolves the
narcotic paralysis of a portion of the functions, the activity of which is
essential to healthy life.

"It will be said that tobacco soothes and cheers the weary toiler and solaces
the overworked brain. All such expedients are fallacious. When a certain amount
of brain-work or hand-work has been performed, nature wants time to rest and
recuperate, and all such devices for escaping from this necessity will fail. It
is a bad policy to set the house on fire to warm our hands by the blaze. Let it
then be clearly understood that the temporary excitement produced by tobacco is
gained by the destruction of vital force, and that it contains absolutely
nothing that can be of use to the tissues of the body."

Other Testimonies.—Dr. Gibbons says: "Tobacco impairs digestion, poisons the
blood, depresses the vital powers, causes the limbs to tremble, and weakens and
otherwise disorders the heart." ,

Dr. Willard Parker says that the manufacturers and users of tobacco " cannot
recover soon, and in a healthy manner, from cases of injury or ^ever. They are
more apt to die in epidemics, and more prone to apoplexy and paralysis."

Dr. Hassock makes the use of tobacco one cause of "the alarming frequency of
apoplexy, palsy, epilepsy, and other diseases of the nervous system."

Another result of the habit is the creation of a thirst, of which Dr. Rush
says: "It cannot be allayed by water, for no sedative, or even insipid liquor,
will be relished after the mouth and throat have been exposed to the stimulants
of the smoke or the use of tobacco."

Dr. Stephenson says that the salivary glands are so exhausted that "brandy,
whisky, or some other spirit is called for."

We have before us excerpts, similar to the above, taken from the professional
opinions of hundreds of able medical authorities.

Tobacco Specially Harmful to the Young.—A writer in the Buffalo Medical Journal
puts on record the following warning: "The use of tobacco is bad enough when
begun in mature life, but it is infinitely worse when the foundations of the
habit are laid in early years, as it seems to be the case here."

A distinguished French physician, (M. Decaisne,) has investigated the effect of
smoking on thirty-eight boys, between the ages of nine and fifteen, who were
addicted to the habit. Twenty-seven presented distinct symptoms of nicotine
poison. In twenty-two there were serious disorders of the circulation,
indigestion, dullness of intellect, and a marked appetite for strong drinks. In
three there was heart affection; in eight decided deterioration of blood; in
twelve there was frequent epistaxis; ten had disturbed sleep, and four had
ulceration of the mucous membrane of the mouth.

All assert that its use is most injurious to young persons. Even the " Organ of
the Tobacco Trade" admits that "Few things could be more pernicious for boys,
growing youths, and persons of unformed constitutions, than the use of tobacco
in any of its forms."

Tobacco and Paralysis.—A Buffalo correspondent of one of our dailies reports
the following: "A case in my own intimate acquaintance has this very week
appalled a large circle of friends in this city. The victim was exactly my own
years, and a companion from early childhood. For thirty years, at least, he has
been a daily smoker of the choicest cigars, but in all his other habits
temperate and regular, and of excellent constitution—one, who, of all men,
would have laughed at the suggestion that tobacco was killing him. A week ago
last Saturday night he was stricken with a progressive paralysis,
characteristic of nicotine, and on Sunday night he died.

Tobacco and Early Physical Weakness.—Says the Scalpel: "So far are we from
doubting its power over the mori,l and physical welfare of the race, that we
have not a doubt that it has infinitely more to do with the physical
imperfection and early death of the children of its votaries, than its great
associate, drunkenness itself. The deficiency of virile power in many instances
of longcontinued smokers is very marked. Every surgeon of experience must have
observed it. The local surgical and medical treatment most effective in these
cases proves conclusively that it is to the debilitating and exhausting
influence of tobacco that these sad consequences are due."

Tobacco Pollutes the Atmosphere.—A person who is saturated with tobacco, or
tobacco-poisoned, acquires a sodden or dirty yellow hue; two whiffs of his
breath will scent a large room; you may nose him before he takes his seat. Of
this he is entirely unconscious; he will give you the full force of his lungs,
and for the most part such people have a great desire to approach and annoy
you. "We have been followed," writes a physician, "round a large office-table
by them, backing continually to escape the nuisance, till we had made a
revolution or two before our motive was perceived."

The Tobacco Appetite often Hereditary.—One of the most alarming facts brought
out is the hereditary influence of this indulgence. The evil effects of the
habit are sometimes scarcely seen in the parent, but are manif est in the
children. Not only the appetite, but disease and physical weakness are
transmitted to the children. This fact, well authenticated, should awaken
thoughtful consideration on the part of parents who are addicted to this
useless habit.

The Excuses of Tobacco Users Trivial.—The pleas set forth for the use of
tobacco are generally trivial and easily answered. The evil effects are so many
and so evident that, as with intoxicating drinks, the only safe plan is total
abstinence. The habit is disagreeable to friends, is injurious to the user, and
has very little in its favor. Even its victims admit that it is useless, if not
positively injurious, and there are thousands who regret that they ever
acquired the appetite. The only relief is a prompt and determined abandonment
of tobacco, in every form and for all time.

Smoking Worse than Chewing.—Smoking is less filthy than chewing, but is more
injurious to health. Dr. Dixon, of the Scalpel, in an article strongly
condemning the use of tobacco in every form, says:—

"Our remarks apply in a much more forcible manner to smoking than to chewing.
Some people are so silly as to suppose, because they do not spit while smoking,
that no harm can ensue; but they should remember that the oil of tobacco, which
contains the deadly nicotine, is volatilized, and circulates with the smoke
through the delicate lining membrane of the mouth at each whiff of the cigar,
and is absorbed by the extensive continuation of this membrane that lines the
nostrils, and acts upon the whole body. The smoke of tobacco is indeed much
more rapid in its stupefying effect, as every professed smoker knows. It is
usually called 'soothing' by its votaries; but. this is, of course, only the
first stage of stupefaction; it acts precisely as opium or other narcotics do"

Tobacco in the Form of Snuff.—" Tobacco in the form of snuff," says Dr. Rush,
"seldom fails of impairing the voice by obstructing the air." At a council of
physicians held in London, the question of "snuff-using" came up for
discussion, but it engaged the attention of the council for only a few minutes,
the discussion being broken off by the unanimous adoption of a resolution
declaring the use of snuff to be "a useless and pernicious habit."

"But I Cant Quit It!"—Let the testimonies of the many thousands who have
discontinued the use of tobacco—some of them in advanced age— answer. Said
James Parton, who was a slave to the practice for thirty years, and who
heroically broke from his chains on the instant of his resolution to do so: "I
have less headache, I enjoy exercise more, and step out much more vigorously.
My room is cleaner, I think I am better tempered, as well as more cheerful and
satisfied. I endure the inevitable ills of life with more fortitude, and look
forward more hopefully to the coming years. It did not pay to smoke, but it
decidedly pays to stop smoking."

Testimony of John Q. Adams.—" In my early youth I was addicted to the use of
tobacco in two of its mysteries—smoking and chewing. I was warned by a medical
friend of the pernicious operation of this habit upon the stomach and the
nerves; and the advice of the physician was fortified by the results of my own
experience. More than thirty years have passed away since I deliberately
renounced the use of tobacco in all its forms; and although the resolution was
not carried into execution without a struggle of vitiated nature, I never
yielded to its impulses; and in the space of three or four months of
self-denial, they lost their stimulating power, and I have never since felt it
as a privation. I have often wished that every individual of the human race
afflicted with this artificial passion could prevail upon himself to try but
for three months the experiment which I have made, feeling sure that it would
turn every acre of tobacco-land into a wheat-field, and add five years of
longevity to the average of human life."

Great Extent of the Tobacco Habit.—A writer in Blackwood's Magazine estimates
the whole amount of tobacco grown on the face of the globe at four thousand 
millions of pounds; and a close estimate shows that the world's tobacco costs,
directly, at least one thousand millions of dollars annually. To this has to be
added the loss of the land on which it is grown, and of the thousands of
persons engaged in its cultivation and manufacture. The wealth-producing power
of both land and men is lost, because the product of their toil does not add
wealth to the country, or increase the nation's power of producing wealth.
Besides, the effect of tobacco growing is to impoverish the soil. Gen. John H.
Cooke, of Virginia, says: "Tobacco exhausts the land beyond all other crops. As
a proof of this, every homestead from the Atlantic border to the head of
tide-water is a mournful monument. It has been the besom of destruction, which
has swept over this once fertile region." The use of tobacco is a tax on the
health and wealth of the user, and money thus spent is worse than wasted.

OPIUM-EATING AND HEALTH.

Powerful Effects of Opium.—The quantity of opium necessary to cause death
varies according to the circumstances and age of the person. Infants can bear a
very small quantity—one drop of laudanum has been known to kill a child.
Children are extremely susceptible to its influence. Two drams have been known
to kill an adult. Opium kills in from four to twelve hours. Liquid preparations
of opium and the salts of morphia act very rapidly.

Symptoms of Opium Poison.—The patient trembles, becomes giddy, drowsy, and
unable to resist the tendency to sleep, the stupor deepens until insensibility
ensues. The pupils become contracted, the eyes and face congested, the pulse
becomes slow and feeble. The respiration becomes slow —the breathing
stertorous, profuse perspiration occurs, the coma becomes deeper, and death
ensues.

Treatment of Poison by Opium.—The stomach should be emptied by the
stomach-pump, or by emetics. Twenty grains of zinc, or ipecac, or a
tablespoonful of mustard or common salt will suffice to eject the poison.
Copious draughts of warm-water should be given to keep up the vomiting. Strong
coffee is an antidote, and brandy and ammonia should be frequently given by the
mouth, or by injection.

Opium-Chewing.—This terrible habit prevails much more widely than many suspect.
The appetite for it is generally caused by the use of the drug in prescriptions
during sickness. Physicians and patients should carefully and intelligently
guard against such evil effects, and in order to do this the drug should be
used sparingly, and only when imperatively needed.

Symptoms of Opium-Chewing.—Persons addicted to the use of opium are
recognizable by the face, which is sallow, pinched, and has a parchmentlike
appearance. The eyes become glassy and receding when deprived of the drug,
there is an unsteady, trembling gait, depression of spirits, and great mental
and even physical suffering.

Treatment for Core.—Opium consumers must out the habit off short; no matter how
terrible may be the craving, it is rarely expedient to gratify it. Total
abstinence is the sure cure, as the appetite will remain if indulged in ever so
little. Large doses of bromide of potassium are recommended as serviceable in
counteracting the cravings experienced by the victims of this horrible vice.

CLIMATE AND HEALTH.

Time Required for Complete Change of Body.—We have noted in a previous chapter
the fact that our bodies are continually wasting away, and that by food and
drink they are as constantly repaired. We lose the fleshy particles of our
bodies once a year, and the boues in seven years. Hence, in seven years we have
possessed seven bodies of flesh and blood, and one frame of bones. We have not
now a particle of flesh and bones we had seven years ago. The water we have
drank, the flesh and vegetables we have eaten, being made of the component
parts of our bodies, cause us to hanker and long for the same substances of
which our bodies are composed. Like substances in us call for like substances
without to supply the waste of the system.

The Philosophy of Acclimation Explained.—Now, suppose we suddenly change our
climate from forty to thirty degrees north latitude. The air, water, fruits,
vegetables, and flesh all differ. The old particles composing our bodies, and
brought from forty degrees north latitude, fly off as usual. This produces
hunger and thirst, and we supply our wants by the water and food of thirty
degrees north latitude, and continue for weeks to do so. This creates a
conflict between the old substances of our bodies and the new flesh and blood
continually forming, throws the electro-nervous force out of bal ance, and
engenders disease. If we live and struggle on for seven years we become
acclimated, because our old flesh and bones, formed by the substances of one
latitude, have disappeared, and our entire systems are made of the substances
of another latitude.'

Effects of Dry and Moist Climates.—It is not generally known, but it is
nevertheless true, that a pure, moderately-dry air generally produces great
mental sprightliness, especially with full-blooded persons. A cloudy and moist
atmosphere, on the other hand, produces mental relaxation, and, with many,
melancholy. This explains why suicides so often happen when the sliy is
overcast. The depressed mental state is thus further enhanced. Villeneuve
reports that of every ten suicides which were committed in Paris during two
years, nine took place in the rainy season. The influence of the

climate is also well exemplified in the case of mountaineers. They are quicker,
more active, and excitable.

Remarkable Facts Incident to a Moist Climate.—A speaker, in a recent address in
one of our chief cities, alluded particularly and approvingly to the fact that
the influence of a moist atmosphere is strikingly illustrated in the case of
individuals who have been weakened by previous illness, from the great number
of suicides committed at the close of the year 1828, in the Dutch places
Groningen and Sneek. Most of the unfortunates had suffered from the epidemics
of 1826 and 1827. In the city of Sneek, with 6,000 inhabitants, not less than
four suicides took place in one week, and among those was a boy eight years
old. *

Influence of Climate upon National Characteristics.—The Swiss naturalist,
Desor, in a recent essay, describes the climate of North America as very
changeable and dry. After having explained a number of phenomena produced by
the climate in general, he depicts its influence upon the inhabitant of this
country. He derives from the climate his activity, aeutenes.% his tall stature,
his eagerness for gain, his practical talent, and his love of adventure. It is
also well known that the inhabitants under a preponderating clear sky possess
more talent for art, while those under a gloomy sky htve more propensity for
speculation and thought.

Influence of Trees upon Climate.—The subject of "foresting," or tht planting of
trees, upon the climate of a country, and of "deforesting," or destroying the
forest growth, continues to excite much interest throughout the world, as it is
now well established that the climate of many localities has been materially
altered by the one or the other of these processes. Systematic efforts have
been made, in different parts of the world, for introducing a growth of trees
where these had either disappeared or had never been known, from which
important results have followed in many instances. In consequence of which,
Egypt, which formerly had only about six rainy days every year, since being
replanted on a large scale, has already attained to twenty-four.

Effect of Water upon Climate.—If we are to believe M. Rayet, the climate of the
Isthmus of Suez will undergo a transformation in consequence of the arrival of
the sea in Lake Timsah and in the basin of the Hi iter Lakes, and the creation
of two immense sheets of water in a region wheie there existed nothing but
marsh land occasionally inundated by the Nile. This modification of climate has
already become observable, f According to the evidence of persons who have
resided on the spot as old employes of the

* Condensed from a report of one of the New York Club meetings, t Meftival
Reporter.

Suez Company, the rains are much more frequent than they were five or six years
since. Apropos of this report, M. Buys-Ballot has addressed to the Academy of
Sciences of Paris the conclusions of a work published some time since, in which
he has shown that the draining of Harlem Lake has modified the climatic
condition of the country. The result of numerous investigations is, that since
the drying of these 19,000 hectares the temperature has risen half a degree in
summer, and has fallen half a degree in winter.

How to Relieve Certain Malarious Districts Sixteen square miles

of the swampy, unhealthy country along the coast of the Bay of Biscay, in the
Department of the Landes, were planted with millions of trees—especially the
cork oak and swamp pine—with surprisingly beneficial results. The trees drained
the land so as to destroy the swamp fevers, and to change it into" a healthy
country with pine forests. Biscay law requires that for every tree cut down two
shall be planted, and it is said to be executed with rigorous severity.

Evil Effect of Sudden Transitions in Climate.—The diseases especially affected
in this way are phthisis, pulmonalis, pneumonia, bronchitis, Blight's disease,
diseases of the brain and nervous system, and diseases in general of persons
who have reached the age of seventy years and upward. Scarlatina and diphtheria
are also subject to the same influences. Persons affected by these diseases,
who might live much longer under favorable circumstances, often die suddenly
through quickly-succeeding alternatious of heat and cold, dryness and dampness.
Invalids weakened by old age are naturally more susceptible of these ill
effects than others; but children are not particularly affected by them except
in cases of pulmonary disease.

Are Frequent Rains Beneficial 1—The relative humidity or degree of saturation
of the air is of greater sanitary significance than the rainfall, but both are
important. In a city the rain washes the air, as well as the streets and
sewers, of many impurities, the presence of which would be prejudicial to
health. It should be remembered that the relative humidity is not always, or
even generally, high when rain falls, which is easily understood when it is
borne in mind that the state of the higher atmosphere may be and is very
different, generally, from that of the lower. In most of the Middle States,
especially those near the sea coast, December is the month in which the
relative humidity is highest, but it is the one in which the rainfall is least.
The following is the order of the months, according to their mean relative
humidity beginning with the one in which it is the highest: December, January,
August, November, September, March, October, February, July, (same as last,)
June, April, May. The following is the order for 1877: January, October,
December, November, September, August, March, June, February, April, May.

The following is the order of the months according to the rainfall, beginning
with the one in which it is greatest: July, September, March, November, June,
February, October, August, April, January, May, December. The following is the
order for 1877: October, July, June, November, March, September, April,
January, May, February, December, August.

TEMPERAMENT AND HEALTH.

Varieties of Physical Temperament.—Temperament is the peculiar physical and
mental character of an individual arising from the relations and proportion
between the constituent parts of the body. The temperament is the visible
measure of a man's life-force. Mere vegetative life is the sum total of the
powers that resist decay. We call its degree the constitution, and each man has
his own in common with other animals. A man has a strong or weak vital force,
he breathes powerfully or feebly, he feels to advantage or disadvantage. If he
has strong vital force he is usually fond of animal food, and is very active
and energetic in his movements. If he is weak in his vital force, or lymphatic
in temperament, he is more sluggish in his movements, and is satisfied with
food which yields less fibrine and red globules to his blood. Vegetarians are
generally "cold-blooded" and phlegmatic. Temperaments are classified as
sanguine, bilious, lymphatic, encephalic, and nervous.

Sanguine Temperament.—A man of fine physical conformation and with plenty of
red blood flowing through his face, with clear, bright, blue or gray eyes,
capacious lungs, broad shoulders, and wavy brown hair and beard, is of the
highest sanguine temperament. He has high vital force, and if he has a
well-organized brain and a good early education, he is susceptible to the best
influences.

Bilious Temperament.—A lean man with well-defined and hard muscles, and little
or no fat, tall and slender-limbed, with brown hair and beard and gray eyes,
very active and energetic in his movements, has the highest de gree of
executive and vital force combined; he is sanguine-bilious, the bill, hiding
the red blood in his face makes him daiker.

Lymphatic Temperament.—A man with full and well-rounded person, and a much
paler face, and whiter, straight hair and beard, with short limbs and fingers,
and built like a fat person, is slower in his movements and passions, and
colder in temperature. He is lymphatic in temperament.

Encephalic Temperament.—This temperament is characterized by an unusual
development of the anterioi brain. Vital vigor is indicated by a broad base to
the head, a broad and full development of the lower brain, a healthy and lively
color to the skin. Those possessing the sanguine temperament, with its
accompanying mental vigor, have great capacity in executing all the functions
of their organs, but they attain a far less degree of longevity than those of
the mixed temperaments, encephalic and bilious sanguine.

Nervous Temperament.—The nervous temperament is characterized by greater
excitability and sensibility than the bilious, by mental activity, by greater
delicacy of person, and less muscular development, is produced by a head of
less occipital strength than the bilious, and less basilar development than the
sanguine. As the basilar organs are not very deep, the person is not very
fleshy, nor the muscular system stout. This temperament does not produce the
greatest extremes of virtue or vice. It is adapted to pursuits which require
intelligence and readiness, with respectable or moderate force of character. It
is much more easily affected by medicine than the bilious temperament, and much
more liable to diseases from slight causes, but less liable proportionably, to
obstinate chronic attacks.

PRECAUTIONS AND HEALTH.

Eating, Sleeping, and Speaking—Simple Precautions.—Never eat hurriedly, because
it causes indigestion.

Never dine in excitement, because the blood is called to the brain which ought
to aid digestion.

Never swallow food without thorough chewing, because it brings on dyspepsia.

Never eat when you do not want it, because when you shall want you cannot eat.

Never sleep with your mouth open, because the air breathed with carbonic acid
disturbs the mucous membranes.

Never go to rest without washing the hands and face, because more dirt
accumulates on the skin in the day than in the night, and is re-absorbed during
the night.

Never begin a journey until breakfast is eaten.

After speaking, singing, or preaching in a warm room in winter, do not leave it
immediately. In leaving, close the mouth, put on the gloves, wrap up the neck,
and put on a cloak or overcoat before passing out of the door. The neglect of
these simple precautions has laid many a good and useful man into a premature
grave.

Never speak under a hoarseness, especially if it requires an effort, or pain
ful feeling.

Danger from Wet Clothes.—Few persons understand fully the reason why wet
clothes exert such a chilling influence. It is simply this: Water, when it
evaporates, carries off an immense amount of heat, in what is called the Intent
form. One pound of water in vapor contains as much heat as nine or ten pounds
of liquid water, and all this heat must, of course, be taken from the body. If
our clothes are moistened with three pounds of water— that is, if by wetting
they are three pounds heavier—these three pounds will, in drying, carry off as
much heat as would raise three gallons of ice-cold water to the boiling point.
No wonder that damp clothes chill us.

Danger from Cosmetics.— Ladies who use cosmetics to give an artificial
whiteness and softness to their complexions, will do well to read a little
pamphlet published by Dr. Lewis A. Sayre, of New York, describing three cases
of lead palsy which have come under his notice. In these three cases the
disease was clearly attributable to the lead, which is an essential ingredient
in nearly all the nostrums sold under the names of "Bloom of Youth,"
"Beautifying Lotion," and the like. By the use of proper remedies the patients
recovered, but for a long time they were as completely palsied as painters are
who work much with white lead paint. The poison is absorbed by the skin and
penetrates to the nerves.

Danger from Lamp Explosions.—Scarcely a week passes but we read accounts of
frightful accidents from kerosene lamps exploding, and killing or scarring for
life men, women, and children. A simple knowledge of the inflammable nature of
the liquid may put a stop to nearly all the accidents. As the oil burns down in
the lamp, inflammable gas gathers over the surface. When the oil is nearly
consumed, a slight jar will inflame the gas, and an explosion follows. If the
lamp is not allowed to burn over half way down, accidents are almost
impossible. "What, then, shall we do?" FiU your lamp* in the morning.

How to Test Dangerous "Kerosene."—There is one simple, and, for practical
purposes, satisfactory method of determining the character of all such
mixtures, and which applies equally as well to the common oils. Let a few drops
be poured into a saucer, and apply a match; if the material burns, reject it as
unsafe. The fact that the material can be set on fire at the ordinary
temperature of our dwellings, should be sufficient evidence to a person of
ordinary intelligence that, when employed in the household, it may at the first
thoughtless or careless act become the cause of a frightful accident. 9

Caution in Cleansing Wells.—As a rule, never descend into a well without first
lowering down a candle or lamp, to be sure that it does not contain foul air.
Wells in barn-yards that are used in winter for stock, and seldom used in
summer, arc very liable to be foul at this season. While the springs

are low, in August or September, is a^ood time to clean them out, but let no
one go down without using the above precaution.* The "foul air" is carbonic
acid, and no one can live in it an instant. If a candle or lamp will burn
freely, there is no danger. The carbonic acid is heavier than common air, and
accumulates at the bottom of wells. The candle will go out as soon as it
strikes the carbonic acid, and thus show how much there is in the well. To get
it out is not difficult, provided there is water in the well. All that is
needed is to pump out the water and dash it in again. The water will absorb an
equal volume of carbonic acid, and the agitation will mix sufficient air with
it to allow combustion to proceed, and if a bundle of straw is ignited and
lowered into the well, the heat will cause the foul air to ascend. We have
succeeded in getting out the carbonic acid from a well simply by dropping
bunches of burning straw into it. The blaze would at first be extinguished when
it struck the carbonic acid, but the heat is more or less retained, and sets
the air in motion.

Caution Concerning the "Tea-pot."—When any tin-lined vessel, especially the
tea-pot, becomes rusted or blackened inside, there is danger in its use. The
acid contained in the tea combines with the iron of the exposed portions of the
vessel, and forms a chemical compound, not unlike ink. It corrodes and darkens
the teeth, and cannot be inoffensive to the stomach. I have seen the
discoloration both Of natural and artificial teeth prove so obstinate from this
cause as to require several scourings with soap and ashes, with a stiff brush,
to remove it. When housekeepers hear any of the family remarking, "This tea
tastes like ink," it is time to examine, possibly to throw away, the tea-pot.
The most palatable and wholesome tea is made by steeping in a bright tin or
porcelain cup, then pouring into a freshly-scalded eartlien teapot. Thus
treated it will never acquire the astringent quality so deleterious to the
teeth and to health.

Caution About Laughing Gas.—The use of nitrous oxide gas should be avoided in
all cases of diseases of the lungs in which the breathing is much embarrassed,
and when there is evidence of either serious brain or heart disease.

Caution Concerning Ice-Cream.—An eminent physician in France has investigated
the article known in cities as street-corner ice-cream, and finds it to contain
poisonous coloring matter, which produces serious symptoms when taken in a
continued course, and is a prolific cause of scrofulous eruptions and dropping
out of the hair among the""lower classes.

Caution in Carrying Lead Pencils.—There is often danger in carrying lead
pencils in the pocket. Several cases of deaths are recorded of persons

* American Agriculturist.

who were pierced by pencils carried in the pocket. We should be careful to
place the pencil, or other sharp instrument, in such a way in the pocket as to
provide against such danger.

Visiting Infected Rooms.—Avoid entering a sick-room while in the state of
perspiration, because in cooling off the pores absorb freely; nor should a
person sit between the sick and the fire. Do not approach contagious diseases
with an empty stomach.

Dangerous Medicines. — Thousands of deaths take place every year from the
unauthorized use of dangerous medicines. They often occur on this wise: A
person is suffering; the family physician is called; he writes a prescription;
it is taken; gratef ul relief is experienced; patient desires to know the name
of the marvelous remedy, bears it in mind, and if there is something similar he
ventures to send for it (the remedy) direct to the druggist. On being relieved
again he becomes enthusiastic, and volunteers advice to his friends. They are
relieved—sometimes—and forthwith he begins to think he knows "about as much as
any of the doctors." A little later, it is not

unusual to see a record in the newspapers that Mr. was "found dead in

his bed this morning." Remember, that a prescription providing a remedy for one
disease, may prove perilous in another.

Dangerous Medicines—Two Good Rules.—1. Never to keep dangerous medicines in the
house.

2. Never to use a dangerous drug, except by the immediate advice of your family
physician.

Mistakes in Prescriptions.—The number of perilous mistakes in putting up
prescriptions by druggists has become alarmingly frequent. A physician assures
us, that eleven times during the last year his prescriptions were answered by
the return of substances not requested. Sometimes mistakes are alleged to be
owing to the careless handwriting of the physicians. Not a few of them are said
to be made by assistants who were too young to be employed in such business. In
some countries the number of apothecary shops is limited by law, and no one can
be principal or assistant who has not studied a certain time, and passed
certain examinations. The requirements in England and France are very rigid in
this respect, as they ought to be in our own country in so serious and
responsible a business.

Using Medicines as Stimulants—Danger.—When in the use of any remedv you find
yourself inclined to employ it oftener, or in larger quantities, to produce the
same effects, whether it be spirits, tobacco, snuff, tea, coffee, chloroform,
ether, or any other stimulant or poison, be assured that you are on the very
verge of destruction, and that you are liable, any day, to instant death. When
you find yourself inclined to "take " anything, even a cup of tea or coffee, to
enable you to perform any work in hand, mental or bodily, avoid it as you would
a deadly poison. The three greatest men of this century, in our country, in
pulpit, bar, and forum, died drunkards; and long before their deaths it was
known to their friends that they were "incapable of an effort" without being
first "fortified by a glass of brandy."

How to Escape Fever Infections.*—In a properly-chosen, well-lighted,
well-aired, well-scrubbed dwelling, with thoroughly-washed inmates, there is
comparatively little fear of infectious poisons. But it is well for every one
to be acquainted with some of the easiest means of resistance and of escape,
when that gigantic evil approaches, or when duty compels us to go within its
range. Knowledge of the reality will prevent foolish exaggerations and diminish
useless fear.

Fever Infections—Avoid the Poison.—All infectious fevers (typhus, scarlatina,
small-pox, etc.) arise from the reception of a subtle poison into the blood,
which, spreading through the system, is exhaled from it principally by the skin
and lungs. This poison has been actually condensed out of impure air poisoned
by filth and decay, and appears in the form of a dirty-looking, half-solid,
half-fluid, half-gelatinous stuff, a few drops of which inserted into the veins
of a dog will inoculate that dog with typhus fever.

Fever Infections—Ventilation.—The poisonous infection is lighter than air, and
ascends. If we allow it to escape at the top of the room the air below is safe.
This is the reason why in fever wards few cases of infection occur; without the
ventilators in the ceiling they would be dens of death. The circulation of
fresh air in a fever-chamber by open doors and windows must be produced several
times a day, (care being taken that the patient be not directly exposed to the
draught,) or, still better, let the upper part of a window be kept permanently
open, and if the patient be in a boxbed let there be several holes bored
through the roof of the bed, to allow the exit of infectious vapor in the
direction of the open window.

Fever Infection—Avoid Absorbing It.—A person may breathe infection a thousand
times over without any bad results; the poison is innocent unless it enters the
blood. The thin delicate skin of the lungs, composed of minute cells, is an
active absorbent, and whatever is inhaled comes in contact with the absorbing
surface, and is liable to pass into the blood. A medical man may be exposed to
infection ninety-nine times with impunity, but on the hundredth occasion the
absorbent vessels may be peculiarly active, they suck in the poison, and he
falls a victim." When the pulse is weak absorption is strong and active; when
the pulse is strong absorption is weak; regular and nourishing food and fresh
air will, therefore, diminish the risk

[ocr errors]

of the poison entering the blood, while want of sleep, and fasting, and im pure
air, will of course greatly increase it.

When infection is not destroyed or dispersed by proper ventilation, it adheres
to articles of furniture and clothing, but especially to cotton and woolen
material, and everything must be done to secure its dispersion by ventilating 
these also. They should be exposed to a free current of air, or steeped for
twelve hours in cold water before washing, and not folded up for some time.
Black or dark substances absorb infection more easily than white; light dresses
are therefore safest for nurses, and hence, too, one of the advantages of
white-washing in the dwellings of the poor.

Fever Infection and Flannel—Wear Flannel.—Cold, damp, and shivering chilliness
also produce debility, which will render the absorbing vessels active; the use
of flannel next the skin is therefore of the greatest importance. It is stated
that the ancient Italians who lived near the poisonous Pontine marshes of
Italy, suffered less from fever than the moderns, aa they wore warm and fleecy
clothing, and that now the evil has been greatly arrested by flannel again
coming into use. Laborers in such places fall victims in great numbers unless
this precaution be adopted.

Fever Infection and Fear.—As far as possible avoid fear. Fear is also a
fruitful source of infection, for it weakens the pulse and the whole frame.
Travelers in the East have told that when a dog is suddenly bitten by a
rattlesnake, the wound is not considered half so deadly as when the dog has
seen the reptile, and stood trembling before it; fear in this case aids and
quickens the poison. Charms and amulets, met with occasionally among the poor
of our country, and frequently in foreign ones, may thus actually be useful by
inspiring confidence, although it is the confidence of superstition.

Poisonous Soap.—A common and annoying form of skin-disease, "ekzema," is
sometimes produced by bad soap. The soap that seems to suffer most in
analytical experiments is the cheaper kind of ll Old Brown Windsor," which is
made from putrid animal matter extracted from heaps of decaying bones, which
are described as emitting a stench that is intolerable. The brown color which
is given to the higher-priced Brown Windsor by artificial means this cheaper
soap gets quite sufficiently from the filthy fat from which it is made; and the
stench, which even the saponifying process does not quite remove, is disguised
by the perfume which is afterward added.

Death from Nicotine.—A case of death from nicotine recently occurred under the
following circumstances: The father of a little girl, in an endeavor to "heal a
sore on her lip," applied to it the contents of a "rank" pipe-stem. The victim
was almost immediately seized with the peculiar symptoms of tobacco-poisoning,
and died a few hours afterward.

Poison of Quinces.—In France, recently, a lady was poisoned to death by the
exhalations of quinces. She slept in a room in which they were kept, with doors
and windows closed, and died in a short time. The odor of quince blossoms is
also highly injurious.

Orange Peel Poisonous.—Fatal consequences may follow the swallowing of the rind
of oranges The oil of the rind is highly acrid, and adds greatly to the noxious
quality of the indigestible mass.

Quite recently a child something over a year old was attacked with violent
dysenteric symptoms, for which no cause could be assigned. The attack came on
during the passage of a steamer from San Diego. The symptoms were so identical
with those which arise from poisoning by orange peel, that the physician
inquired particularly if the child had had an opportunity of getting this
substance in its mouth. He was informed that it had been playing with an
orange, and nibbling at it, just before the attack of the disease. The
discharges from the bowels were frequent, and consisted of blood and mucus.
After a week of severe enteric inflammation the child died. Though but a small
quantity must have been swallowed, yet a very small quaiflity of such an
indigestible and irritating substance will often produce most serious
consequences.

Danger in Carrying Friction Matches.—Many persons have the habit of carrying
friction matches loosely in their pockets, and using these at the same time
quite indiscriminately for carrying tobacco, candies, cakes, and other
eatables. Aside from the danger of ignition of the matches, which might cause
serious burns, a greater danger arises from the fact that the tips of the
matches, highly charged with phosphorus, are liable to break off and mix with
those eatables in the pocket, and in that way find their way into the stomach,
and occasion fatal accidents of poisoning. Several such cases have occurred,
and point to the necessity of greater care in carrying and using matches.

Care Concerning Poisonous Candies.—In no class of articles intended for
consumption is the use of poisons so free as in candies and confections.
Arseniate of copper, copperas, white lead and litharge, (or red lead,) and the
aniline colors, red, green, or blue, and other poisons, mineral and vegetable,
are frequently employed in the manufacture of catidies. There are confectioners
who do not use such dangerous drugs, or who use them so sparingly that they
work no immediate appreciable harm to the consumer; but otl era are neither so
scrupulous nor so well informed about the real nature of the poisons which
impart the desired vividness of color or fineness of flavor to their products.
Bright, highly-colored, handsome candies always sell'better than dull, plain
varieties. The beautiful tints can be had most cheaply and satisfactorily by
the use of the virulent mineral poisons—chiefly arseniate!

and preparations of copper and lead. Be cautious, therefore, in purchasing
candies to buy only of manufacturers or dealers who are scrupulously careful in
their preparation.

Death from Chloroform.—Dr. Charles Anderson, of Cincinnati, calls attention, in
the American Journal of Medical Science, to a very singular circumstance
attending the inhalation and use of chloroform. Many of those who have died
from its use have taken it repeatedly, and often for a considerable time,
without any unpleasant symptoms, whereas, an attempt to give it a short time
afterward has proved fatal. Thus, one patient who had taken it frequently
during ten years, died from forty drops. Another had taken it one hundred
times, and had once been under its influence five hours; the last dose, which
was fatal, consisted of an inhalation or two from a chloroformed handkerchief.
Dr. Anderson expresses the opinion that in these cases there exists a sort of
floating idiosyncrasy—"one that may be in him to-day, and off to-morrow; but
if, while under its influence, he inhales the vapor of chloroform, he is almost
sure to die. I was on the point of saying, that if he inhales* the slightest
quantity of the vapor of chloroform it will prove fatal"

Care Concerning Ice-Cream.—Ice-creams may be colored as freely as any other
confections. The brilliant red tint of strawberry cream may be attained by
litharge or rosaline; the splendid green tint of pistachio cream (so-called)
may be derived from arseniate of copper more economically than from the
pistachio nut. It does not follow that the confectioners who make these colored
creams know that they are using poisonous ingredients for producing tints or
flavors. They may obtain the articles from other persons who manufacture and
sell them.

Danger of Green-Colored Materials.—In the use of green papers, tarlatans,
artificial flowers, and other green-colored materials, great care and
discrimination should be exercised, as the color frequently contains arsenie in
the form of the brilliant, but very poisonous, arseniate of copper, known as
Schiele's Sehweinfurt, and Paris Green. Such paper is sold in many stores for
ornamental purposes, and even used in wrapping candies, and for Kindergarten
material and toys. Thuse colors and materials containing them, among which are
green wall-paper and window-shades, and the bright green tarlatans and crapes
used for evening dresses, etc., are not only dangerous in the hands of
children, lest they may get particles of the poisonous color into their mouth
or inhale its dust, but also from the comparatively large amount of arsenic
they contain, and by the fact that the color is slowly decomposed by moisture
and heat, and passes poisonous arsenious gases into the air. The use of bright
green wall-papers and window-shades in sitting and sleepingrooms should never
be permitted, unless the color be tested and found free of arsenic. Wall-paper
in particular has caused many deaths and cases of severe illness.

How to Detect Arsenic in Colors.—The green arsenious colors are soluble in
ammonia water, (hartshorn;) if, therefore, a little ammonia water is poured on
strips of the paper or crape in a plate, a disappearance of the color or such a
change in it as indicates the removal of green, makes the presence of arsenic
probable. To identify its presence, strips of the paper or fabric should be
immersed in a little ammonia water for a few minutes; about ten drops of the
water are then poured upon a glass pan or plate, and a small crystal or piece
of a crystal of nitrate of silver is placed in the center of the liquid. If a
yellow turbidity forms around the crystal, it indicates the presence of
arsenic.

Be Cautious of Poisonous Vegetables.—There are many beautiful and
innocent-looking forms of vegetable life to be met with in our gardens and
hedges, which are yet full of deadly poison, while others, from their close
resemblance to nutritious articles of food, are often partaken of by mistake,
and fatal accidents are consequently of too frequent occurrence. Here is a
partial list of them: "Monkshood," or aconite; "fool's-parsley," a species of
hemlock; buttercups (often poisonous to children's hands;) laburnam seeds;
deadly-nightshade (half a berry of the dark purple has caused death ;)
belladonna (poison lies in the fruit answering to the potato apple.;) leaves of
the common laurel; the wild arum; and one kind of mushrooms. The mushrooms
proper to be used in cookery grow in the open pasture land, for those that grow
near or under trees are poisonous. The eatable mushrooms first appear very
small, and of a round form on a little stalk. They grow very rapidly, and the
upper part and stalk are white. As they increase in size, the upper part
gradually opens, and shows a fringed fur of a very fine salmon color, which
continues more or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns
to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the
skin can be easily parted from the edge and middle, and whether they have a
pleasant smell. Those which are poisonous have a yellow skin, and the under
part has not the clear flesh-color of the real mushroom; besides which they
smell rank and disagreeable, and the fur is white or yellow.

ANTIDOTES FOR POISONS-HYDROPHOBIA.

Animals Affected by Hydrophobia.—Man, and many of the lower an imals, are
subject to madness, or hydrophobia. In animals the disease is called rabies, or
canine madness. Dogs, cats, and wolves are mostly its subjects, but sometimes
goats, pigs, horses, and cows are the victims. The poieon is communicated by
means of the saliva through wounds made by the teeth, and may occur at any
season of the year.

Period of Development.—The period of its develoyment, after the subject has
been bitten, and the virus communicated, varies considerably. Usually it
appears within two months. Cases have been mentioned, where the disease did not
develop for ten, or twelve, or fifteen months.

Symptoms of Hydrophobia.—In hydrophobia, the victim becomes melancholy, and his
fear keeps him on the watch for some development of the disease. If the part
bitten becomes painful, and begins to inflame, his anguish becomes intensified.
The skin becomes hot and dry, the pulse rapid and weak, and there is much
thirst. In two or three days the muscles of the .throat, especially those of
deglutition, become sore and stiff. Attempts to swallow are attended with
spasmodic contraction of these muscles, and of the respiratory muscles.
Convulsive movements become more frequent, and easily excited by pouring out
water, cold currents of air, changing of bed-clothes, or shutting doors
hastily. Sometimes general convulsions occur. The thirst becomes intense, but
the patient fears to relieve it, for fear of bringing on the spasms, or of
choking. The eyes are blood-shot and staring, saliva flows from the mouth, the
voice is husky, and the countenance manifests extreme terror. As death
approaches, the skin becomes clammy and cold, the pulse almost gone, and
respiration irregular. Convulsions, or exhaustion, soon terminate the
sufferings of the unfortunate victim.

Treatment of Hydrophobia.—1. The wound inflicted by the bite of an animal
suspected of rabies should be washed and sucked as in cases of wounds incurred
in dissections, and afterwards cauterized thoroughly. Cutting out the wounded
pait is better, in most cases, than cauterizing. Some recommend a tight
ligature placed around the limb above the wound, before washing, and excision,
to prevent absorption of the poison. This is more useful when the bite is on
the finger or toes. The excision should extend some distance into the healthy
tissue, and the wound be afterward thoroughly cauterized. Resort should be had
to a physician the first moment possible— washing and sucking the wound is of
the first importance.

2. Spirits of hartshorn is said to be an excellent remedy. The wound should be
bathed constantly with it, and three or four doses taken inwardly during the
day. The hartshorn decomposes chemically the virus insinuated into the wound,
and immediately alters and destroys its deleteriousness.

3. The following is reported as a "sure cure" for hydrophobia: "The L<te must
be bathed, as soon as possible, with warm vinegar and water, and when this has
dried, a few drops of muriatic acid poured upon the wound will destroy the
poison of the saliva, and relieve the patient from all present and future
danger."

4. The following remedy was habitually used by the late Mr. Youatt, a wellknown
veterinary surgeon, who was bitten by mad dogs eight times. The remedy was to
allow the common nitrate of silver, easily procured, to filter into the wound.
It decomposes the saliva, and in doing this destroys the virus. Sir Benjamin
Brodie acted upon this, with complete success, in a case where a mad dog had
licked the inside of a child's mouth. The best mode of application of the
nitrate of silver is by introducing it solidly into the wound.

5. A new cure for rabies was recently discovered by chance in France. A farmer,
whose horse was affected, had him taken to a steep bank of a lake and thrown
off into the water, supposing that the sudden plunge, and the fall together
would kill the animal speedily. A few moments after, the horse rose to the
surface, and the farmer was surprised to find that all symptoms of madness had
vanished, and the horse soon made for the shore. On being taken out, he was
found perfectly docile, and continued so, to the farmer's great delight, no
traces of the disease ever reappearing". The theory resulting from this
incident is this: Hydrophobia, or rabies, is a disease of the brain, in which
fear is predominant. In the case of the horse, the terror produced by the
sudden plunge into the cold water was so far superior to that of the disease,
as to act homeopathically upon the animal, and when the overpowering effect had
passed, and the animal was fairly in the water, the cooling plunge had a
beneficial effect.

It is a mistake to suppose that mad dogs will always shun the water. On the
contrary, they will often rush eagerly to it, and try to drink, although they
are generally unable to do so, because of paralysis of the jaw.

ANTIDOTES FOR POISONS-SNAKE AND INSECT BITES.

What Snakes are Poisonous.—Among the principal venomous reptiles nay be
enumerated the whip-cord snake, cobra di capello, rattlesnake, viper, and
adder. According to Dr. J. W. Howe, the bites of the first two produce a fatal
result more quickly than the others. Rattlesnake bites stand next in order of
virulence. Viper and adder bites are fatal only to very young animals, or to
children of tender years. In the more deadly classes the symtoins following a
bite, and the action of a poison, are the same. Rattlesnake bites are not
uncommon in the Southern and Western States, and the mortality attending them
is very great. The venom of this reptile is contained in a small sac situated
at the base of the sharp tooth or fang. The tooth is channeled throughout the
center to make a place of exit for the poison. When the tooth is inserted into
the tissues, the poison-sac is compressed, and the venom ejected into the
wound.

Symptoms of Snake-Poison.—Persons bitten by one of these reptiles experience
after a few minutes a feeling of great depression and faintness. The wound
begins to swell rapidly, very soon, sometimes becoming of dark red color, and
sometimes a bluish black. A sharp and intense pain is felt in the wound
extending along the course of the principal nerves. Sometimes there is
congestion of the brain and there may also be congestion of the lungs and
mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines. The pulse is feeble,
intermittent, and rapid. The pupils of the eyes become dilated, pain is felt
over the abdomen, and vomiting and sometimes purging takes place. Delirium
generally appears. The surface and extremities of the body grow cold and
clammy, and breathing becomes difficult, stupor sets in, growing worse rapidly,
and death terminates the sufferings soon.

Antidotes for Snake-Bites.—1. The general treatment should be the same as that
pursued in cases of hydrophobia. Various internal remedies may be recommended,
of which the best is carbonate of ammonia in doses of ten or twenty grains
every half hour. Friction to the surface of the body, with pieces of flannel
dipped in hot alcohol, is also beneficial.

2. Sweet oil is a very good remedy. A plain farmer says: "It is now over twenty
years since I learned that sweet oil would cure the bite of a rattlesnake, not
knowing it would cure other kinds of poison. Practice, observation, and
experience have taught me that it will cure poison of any kind, both on mau and
beast. The patient must take a spoonful of it internally and bathe the wound
for a cure. To cure a horse it requires eight times as much as for a man. One
of the most extreme cases of snake-bites occurred eleven years ago. It had been
thirty days standing, and the patient had been given up by his physician. I
gave him a spoonful of the oil, which effected a cure."

8. Dr. Wier, of Philadelphia, states that the application of carbolic acid,
immediately on the receipt of the injury, prevents both local and general
poisoning. The pure acid, however, if applied in too great quantity, is liable
to produce sloughing and even dangerous symptoms; hence it is best used in the
proportion of two parts of acid and one of alcohol. Given internally, or
applied to the wound at a late period, it produces no effect. It is believed to
act, not by neutralizing the poison, but by causing contraction of the small
vessels, and thus preventing its absorption.

4. Prof. Halford, of the University of Melbourne, Australia, has found an
antidote for snake-poison which has proved successful in the most critical
cases. It is simply liquid ammonia ejected into the veins. A small syringe,
with a sharp point for the purpose of making the injection, is manufactured and
sold in Melbourne, and now few travel in that country without one.

Bites of Venomous Insects Among the symptoms following the bites

of scorpions, tarantulas, centipedes, spiders, bees, hornets, etc., are head

ache, vertigo, dimness of sight, and feverishness. Sometimes the wound is not
much inflamed, while in other cases it becomes red, painful, and swollen,
ending in suppuration.

Treatment of Insect-Bites.—1. Cleanse the wound and spongt it thoroughly with a
strong solution of ammonia, and afterward cover it w.th linen or other suitable
cloth, wet with solution of ammonia.

2. Poison from bees, hornets, spider-bites, etc., is instantly arrested by the
application of equal parts of common salt and bicarbonate of soda, well rubbed
in on the place bitten or stung.

ANTIDOTES FOR POISONS-MISCELLANEOUS.

Poison Ivy and Oak: Remedies.—1. The common wild turnip, or
"Jack-in-the-Pulpit," as it is called, is an excellent remedy when scraped and
applied to the poisoned part. When the blisters have flattened, apply cold
cream to heal them sooner.

2. A good remedy for poison by ivy is to dissolve a tablespoonful of copperas
in two thirds of a teacup of boiling water, and when cold apply with a cloth to
the poisoned places.

3. Rubbing frequently with sweet oil is one of the best remedies. Some use salt
and water, and find relief from that.

4. A standing antidote for poison by dew, poison oak, ivy, etc., is to take a
handful of quick lime, dissolve in water, let it stand half an hour, then paint
the poisoned parts with it. Three or four applications will never fail to cure
the most aggravated case.

5. Olive oil is said to be a certain cure. In severe cases it is to be taken
inwardly as well as applied externally. Dose: two tablespoonfuls three timel a
day, keeping the affected parts well oiled all the time. Anointing exposed
parts with the oil will prevent poisoning.

6. A few drops of kerosene oil, rubbed in with the point of the finger or a
piece of sponge, is a certain and speedy cure for the effects of the poison
oak. Repeat for three or four days.

Lead Poisoning.—In cases where people frequenting freshly-painted rooms are
affected in a disagreeable manner, the poisoning is due to the presence of lead
in the paint. Painters are often poisoned by washing paint from their hands by
means of turpentine. The turpentine brings the particles of lead into such a
condition that they are easily absorbed by the skin. Lead is also found in hair
dyes in large quantities, and the glazed visiting cards, so much in vogue a few
years ago, owe their resemblance to "mother of pearl" to salt of lead.

Antidotes for Lead Poisoning.—The topical application of cold in lead poisoning
has been tried in Clichy, by Professor Monneret, in over forty cases with
complete success. Iced drinks and injections, the cold shower-bath two or three
times a day, and ice-bags or ice-poultices (of fragments of ice laid in dry
linseed meal) are used. The pain and other symptoms disappear, "as if by
enchantment," and in two or three days the bowels are natural. A red-lead
manufacturer of France has discovered that the use of milk at their meals,
which he has made obligatory on his workmen, to the extent of one liter daily,
preserves those employed in lead works free from any symptoms of lead-disease.

Poisoning by the Filling of Teeth.—A young lady of St. Louis has been suffering
for several years past from symptoms of mercurial poisoning. For a long time no
cause could be ascertained, but a dentist finding that she had her teeth filled
with mercurial amalgam, came to the conclusion that the chlorine contained in
her saliva might have generated corrosive sublimate. He therefore removed the
amalgam and put in gold. She has since recovered her health.

Poisoning by Wall-Paper.—The habit of putting on the wall layer after layer of
wall-paper is very pernicious. Several cases have been discovered lately where
there was a mass of decayed paste and paper two inches thick, with a large
growth of fungi. The sickness'of several members of the families was attributed
to the paper.

Phosphorus Poisoning.—Commercial oil of turpentine is a good antidote for
poisoning by phosphorus. There is no fatty degeneration of the tis sues, nor is
there any free phosphorus found in the system of the animals experimented on.
Phosphorus and turpentine oil form in the stomach a compound resembling
spermaceti, which is readily excreted.

* Poisoning by Opium.—1. Bisulphide of carbon will cure serious cases of
poisoning by opium. Cloths should be saturated with it, and laid along each
side of the spinal column its entire length, and covered to prevent
evaporation.

2. Fluid extract of belladonna, administered in doses of twenty drops every ten
minutes, will arrest the progress of the opiate.

3. Electricity will cure where everything else fails.

How to Act when Poison has been Swallowed: General Directions.

—1. Whatever is done must be done quickly. The instant a person is known to
have swallowed poison, by design or accident, give water to drink, cold or
warm, as fast as possible, a gallon or more at a time, and as fast as vomited
drink more; tepid water is best, as it opens the pores of the skin and promotes
vomiting, and thus gives the speediest cure to the poisonous article. If pains
begin to be felt in the bowels, it shows that part, at least, has passed
downward; then large and repeated injections should be given, the object in
both cases being to dilute the poison as quickly and as largely as possible. Do
not wait for warm water; take that which is nearest at hand, cold or warm, for
every second of time saved is of immense importance; at the same time send
instantly for a physician, and as soon as he comes turn the case into his
hands, telling him what you have done. Drinking a gallon or two of simple water
will not cure every case of poisoning, but it will cure many.

2. If a poison swallowed is known to be an acid by the name on the bottle, or
by the discolored spots on the dress, or having a sour taste when the tongue is
applied, alkalies will be the proper antidote—such as chalk, magnesia, soda,
whiting mixed with milk, or plaster torn from the wall, if nothing better is at
hand. If, on the other hand, poisoning has occurred by an alkaline substance,
such as pearl-ash, vinegar would arrest its progress. The antidote for
corrosive sublimate, is eggs; and for sugar-of-lead, cpsom salts.

3. A poison of any conceivable degree of potency which has been swallowed
intentionally or by accident, may be rendered instantly harmless by swallowing
two gills of sweet oil. An individual with a very strong constitution should
take twice the quantity. This oil will neutralize every form of vegetable or
mineral poison with which physicians or chemists are acquainted.

4. Arsenic may be rendered inactive in the stomach by a dose of hydrated
peroxide of iron, which is prepared by pouring a solution of green vitriol
boiled with nitric acid, or of chloride of iron, into ammonia or soda, and
washing the precipitate. Both arsenic and peroxide of iron can then be removed
by the stomach pump or an emetic.

EMERGENCIES-HOW TO MEET THEM.

Loss of Blood a Real Loss.—Many deaths from wounds might be pr». vented if the
means were immediately at hand for stopping the flow of blood. In any case the
loss of blood is a disaster from which it takes a long time to recover. The
means to be taken to save life must be adopted instantly, before a surgeon can
be called, and therefore ought to be very commonly understood.

Bleeding from Veins.—1. Ordinary bleeding from small cuts or injuries may be
stopped by cold water, or ice, or pressure, until a clot has had time to form.
The wisdom of our Maker has made this wonderful provision, that as soon as
blood ceases to circulate in its proper channels, or comes in contact with the
air, it will coagulate. By this means a plug is formed at the mouth of an open
vessel to stop the flow of blood. Cold water and various styptics, like
sulphate of iron, tannin, alum, and matico, hasten this result.

2. It is said that bleeding from a wound, on man or beast, may be stopped by a
mixture of wheat flour and common salt, in equal parts, bound on with a cloth.
If the bleeding be profuse, use a large quantity, say from one to three pints.
It may be left on for hours, or even days, if necessary.

Bleeding from Arteries.—Blood may often be seen to flow from one small point of
the wound. This indicates the opening of a small artery. Slight pressure with
one finger, or the ball of the thumb over the spot, will stop it as long as the
pressure is kept up, and often altogether, even after the pressure is removed.

2. Bleeding from a larger artery is indicated at once, by coming in jets at
each beat of the heart, and being of a bright scarlet color instead of purple.
If the wound be of such a character that the end of the artery can be seen, it
can be readily taken up with a hook, or sharp-pointed fork, by any one who
keeps his wits about him in spite of the sudden alarm, and tied with a strong
thread. Otherwise, tie the limb between the wound and the heart, the simplest
device being to bind the handkerchief around, and running a stick beneath the
knot, twisting it up until the requisite pressure be attained to stop the
bleeding.

Bleeding from the Teeth.—The following is an excellent remedy for hemorrhage
arising from the extraction of teeth: Cut a piece of clean dry sponge into cone
shape. This should be compressed tightly and introduced into the cavity left by
the tooth. As soon as the sponge is dampened it begins to swell, and thus will,
in most cases, effectually close the cavity, and prevent bleeding.

N. B.—For remedy for bleeding from the nose, see page 146.

Rupture of a Large Blood-vessel In case a large artery or vein is

cut, especially in a limb, make a knot in a handkerchief, and tie it loosely
about the limb, placing the knot on the wound. Then with a stick twist the
handkerchief until the flow of blood ceases. A pad can be used instead of a
knot. If the artery is ruptured, apply the pressure between the wound and the
heart. If a vein, beyond the wound.

Fracture of the Skull.—Send for the physician. If there be a collapse, hot
bottles and blankets should be applied to the extremities, and the circulation
stimulated by friction with the hands. Diluted injections may be given. These
efforts must cease when reaction is secured.

Partial Fainting, and its Relief. — In mild cases of fainting, where partial
consciousness remains, stimulating substances, as vapor of ammonia or
cologne-water, may be inhaled, and cold water sprinkled in the face, and fresh
air introduced into the apartment.

Apparent Insensibility.—No violent measures should be used to arouse a patient
who may, or may not, be insensible. Lay him in bed, loosen his clothes, and let
him have a free access of air, notice whether the breathing i* quiet or noisy,
regular or irregular, whether there are any convulsive movements of the limbs,
whether the urine or feces are passed involuntarily, whether the pupils of both
eyes are alike, or larger or smaller than usual, or whether the patient will
bear to have his eyes touched, and whether he can be aroused at all. In all
cases of apparent insensibility, the attendant should be careful to say nothing
to the patient within his hearing, for while he can neither speak nor move, he
may yet be perfectly conscious of all that is passing around him, and the
effort to speak may do him great injury.

Complete Unconsciousness and its Remedy.—Place the patient immediately in a
recumbent position, with the head lower than the shoulders. Remove all
superfluous clothing from the chest and throat. Neck-ties, collars, etc.,
hinder recovery. Moisten the nostrils with ammonia. Throw cold water into the
face, aud strike the palms of the hands, and rub them rapidly. Dip a phite in
hot water and place it over the stomach and breast-bone. Should all these means
fail, try galvanism, placing one pole of the battery at the upper part of the
spinal column, and move the other up and down, over the back-bone and the
breast-bone.

Dislocation, and its Treatment—This is the displacement of two or more bones
where articular surfaces have lost wholly, or in part, their natural
connection, either owing to external violence, or to disease of some of the
parts about the joint. Dislocation is complete when the bones have entirely
lost their connection; incomplete, when they partly preserve it; and compound,
when a wound communicates with the dislocated joint. The first thing to be done
is to reduce the protruded bone to its original place, then to retain it in
that position by means of splints, ligatured as tightly as the circulation will
allow. The circulation must, by no means, be impeded, otherwise mortification
will ensue.

Sprains, and How to Cure Them.—A sprain is often more painful and dangerous
than a dislocation. It requires immediate attention. The injured part should be
wrapped in flannels wrung out of hot water, and covered with a dry bandage, or,
what is better, oiled silk. The limb should not be allowed to hang down, but
kept in a quiet, easy position, until after all pain has ceased.

Fracture of the Collar-Bone.—If the collar-bone is fractured, the attendants
must keep the patient in bed without a pillow, with the arm on the injured side
folded across the chest. Keep the part moist with water '' until the doctor
comes."

Fracture of the Ribs.—If the ribs are fractured, the patient should remain in
bed, have a spittoon within reach, so that the expectorations may be duly noted
by the physician when he arrives.

Dislocations.—The limbs must be extended by force, until the contraction of the
muscles is overcome, when the bone may be readily pushed into its proper place.
In case of dislocation of the jaw, the operator must thrust both thumbs
(covered by linen cloths) as far as possible into the mouth, while the fingers
press externally the jaw; then press downward and backward until the back end
of the jawbone is restored to its place.

Clothing on Fire—Presence of Mind Needed.—Many persons lose their lives by want
of presence of mind when a small portion of their clothes catches fire; and
many lives are lost by others in the room also losing their presence of mind.
The first impulse of fear is to ring the bell, rush madly about the room, or
into passages full of draughts, so that the fire is fanned, and in a few
minutes the unfortunate sufferer is hopelessly burned.

Clothing on Tire—What to Do.—The first thing to do is to snatch up a hearth-rug
or table-cloth, or any woolen thing that may be nearest, and roll it tightly
round the person. This will exclude the air, and extinguish the flame. If water
is within reach, it should be sluiced over the burning parts. Do not go in
search of it—a moment's delay is fatal. If a person is alone in a room, and
there is nothing better to be had, the best plan is to roll over and over on
the carpet till the fire is extinguished.

To Prevent Clothing from Taking Fire.—There is a very simple process by which
muslins, used for ladies' and children's dresses, can be prevented from getting
on fire. Dissolve a small piece of alum in the water in which muslins are
rinsed. When dry, if a light be put to them, they will smoulder slowly away,
but not break out into a blaze. And this, so far from being injurious to
muslin, improves its appearance greatly.

Cures for Lock-jaw.—Take a small quantity of turpentine, warm it, and pour it
on the wound, no matter where it is, or of what nature it is, and relief will
follow in less than one minute. Lobelia has been successfully used in several
cases of lock-jaw.

Relief from Choking.—1. To relieve choking, break an egg into a cup and give it
to the patient to swallow. The white of the egg seems to catch around the
obstacle and remove it. If one egg does not answer the purpose try another. The
white is all that is necessary.*

2. Often a smart blow between the shoulders, causing a compression of the chest
and a sudden expulsion of air from the lungs will throw out the substance.

* Eggs In Cask Of Trouble.—The white of nn egg is said to be a specific for
fishbones sticking in the throat. It is to be swallowed raw. and will carry
down a bone easily and certainly. There is another fact touching egj:s which it
will be well to remembtT. When, aa sometimes by accident, corrosive sublimate
is swallowed, the white of one or two eggs taken will neutralize the poison,
and change the effect to that of a dose of calomel.

8. If the person can swallow, give plenty of bread and potatoes, and water to
wash it down.

4. Press upon the tongue with a spoon when perhaps the substance may be seen
and drawn out with a pair of dull scissors.

5. If these fail, give an emetic of ipecac, or mustard and water.

frost-Bites—Instant Remedy.—Frost-bites are frequently so sudden that one is
not aware when they occur. In Canada, it is not uncommon for persons meeting in
the street to say, "Mind, sir, your nose looks whitish." The blood cools and
runs slowly, and the blood-vessels become choked and swollen. Keep from the
heat. Rub the part quickly with snow, if necessary for hours, till the natural
color is restored. If one is benumbed with cold, take him into a cold room,
remove the wet clothes, rub the body dry, cover with blankets, and give a
little warm drink. On recovering, let him be brought to a fire gradually.*

General Treatment for Burns and Soalds.—In both large, and small burns, protect
carefully from the air. Cover the wound immediately with cotton-batting, or
dredge it with flour. A piece of oil silk will do good service. Wrap a dry
bandage upon the outside. Remove the patienc to a bed warmly-covered. Do not
remove the bandage until it becomes stiff and irritating; then remove
gradually, and redress and cover quickly. Do not expose any wound to the dust
and infinitesimal living germs of the air. Put no salve on a bum.

1. A solution of bi-carbonate of sodium applied to burns promptly and
permanently relieves pain.

2. Cotton-batting saturated with a solution of carbolic acid is very good in
cases of severe burning. It is also good in cases of gunpowder burns, as it
prevents discoloration of the skin.

3. It is said of oakum as a dressing for burns, that it induces the healing of
extensive sore3 with remarkable rapidity; it induces healing action in those
indolent ulcers that are the result of defective hygienic conditions; it
prevents all smell; it is cheap, saves time and trouble; and most important of
all, the resulting scars do not contract.

4. In cases of scalding or burning the body, immersing the part in cold water
gives entire relief, as instantaneously as the lightning. Meanwhile, get some
common dry flour, and apply it an inch or two thick on the injured part the
moment it emerges from the water, and keep sprinkling on the flour

* Steele.—If you are cauglit In a snow-storm, look for a snow-bank in the lee
of a hill, or a wood out of the wind, or a hollow in the plain filled v4th 
snnw. Scrape out a hole big enough to creep into, and the drifting snow will
keep you warm. Men and animals have been preserved after days of such
imprisonment . Kemember that if you give way to sleep in the open field, you
will never awake.

through any thing like a pepper-box cover, so as to put it on evenly. Do
nothing else, drink nothing but water, eat nothing, until improvement
commences, except some dry bread softened in very weak tea of some kind. Cures
of frightful burnings have been performed in this way, as wonderful as they are
painless.

5. A varnisher of metals, in Paris, one day got his hand badly burned, anil in
his agony thrust it into a pot of varnish at his side. To his astonishment the
pain at once ceased, and the wound rapidly healed. This cure being reported
around, persons m the neighborhood who had got burned, came to the varnisher
and were cured in like manner. The news circulated far and wide, and finally
reached the medical faculty, and the varnisher was sent for to try his skill in
the hospital. He responded to the call and succeeded in curing all on whom he
operated. The philosophy of the cure is, the varnish keeps the burn from the
air, and gives nature a chance to supply a new skin under its protection.

6. The white of an egg haB proved of late the most efficacious remedy for
burns. Seven or eight successive applications of this substance soothe the pain
and effectually exclude the burn from the air. This simple remedy seems
preferable to collodion or even cotton. Extraordinary stories are told of the
healing properties of a new oil which is easily made from the yelks of hens'
eggs. The eggs are first boiled hard, the yelks are then removed, crushed, and
placed over a fire, where they are carefully stirred until the whole substance
is just on the point of catching fire, when the oil separates and may be poured
off. It is in general use among the colonists of Southern Russia as a means of
curing cuts, bruises, and scratches.

7. A bath in oil is orie of the best remedies for serious burns. A German
ballet-girl, whose dress had caught fire, and who had been horribly burned in
consequence, was put into a bath full of oil by the chief physician of the
Leipsic Hospital. She was suffering excruciating agonies, but the oil caused
her pains to cease almost immediately. She remained in the bath nine days and
nights, the oil being renewed five times during that period, and her burns were
then so far healed that she could be taken out without pain or danger. Three
weeks after she had completely recovered. This is an admirable form of cure,
because it suppresses the intolerable tortures which do more to kill the
victims by fire than the actual gravity of the wounds. Unfortunately, like most
good things in life, it is a remedy beyond the reach of small purses.

Cut-Wounds—How to Heal Quickly.—Protect the wounded parts from the air and dust
instantly if possible. Press the parts together and keep them so by adhesive
plaster or bandage, and give them instant and permanent rest till healed, which
in most cases will be rapidly accomplished. It is the inherent property of all
wounds (on surface or deep) to heal by "first intention."

How to Relieve Pain from Wounds.—A correspondent of the Country Gentleman gives
the following remedy for painful wounds: "Take a pan or shovel with burning
coala, and sprinkle upon them common brown sugar ajid hold the wounded part in
the smoke. In a few minutes the pain will be allayed, and recovery proceed
rapidly.

Pain from Nail in the Foot—Instant Remedy.*—The same writer says: "In my own
case a rusty nail had made a bad wound in the bottom of my foot. The pain and
nervous irritation was severe. This was all removed by holding it in the
sugar-smoke for fifteen minutes, and I was able to resume my reading in
comfort. We have often recommended it to others with like results. Last week
one of my men had a finger-nail torn out by a pair of ice-tongs. It became very
painful, as was to be expected. Held in sugarsmoke for twenty minutes, the pain
ceased, and it promises speedy recovery."

Sunstroke—Its History.—The earliest case on record is the one mentioned in the
Bible.

"Manassas was her husband, who died in the early harvest: for as he stood among
them and bound sheaves in the field, the heat came upon his head, and he fell
on his bed, and died in the city of Bethulia." The second instance relates to
the son of the Shunamite woman, who was restored to life' by the prophet
Elisha: "And when the child was grown, it fell on a day that he went out with
his father to the reapers. And he said unto his father, 'My head, my head.' And
when he had taken him and brought him to his mother, he sat on her knees till
noon, and then died."

Sunstroke Does not Follow Short Exposure.—It docs not depend upon a short
exposure to the direct rays of the sun; the exposure must have been continued
for a day or two. Nor does sunstroke necessarily arise from solar heat.
Prolonged confinement in the heated atmosphere of a building may likewise
produce it.

Most Dangerous Time for Sunstroke.—About the third or fourth day from the
commencement of a heated term, sunstrokes usually appear. The sufferers in most
cases are exposed to the heat for some days preceding the attack. In the summer
of 1866, the majority of sunstroke cases—generally laboring-men—were brought to
Bellevue Hospital in the morning or early in the day.

Premonitory Symptoms of Sunstroke The symptoms of sunstroke

* Here 1b another, which cornea strongly endorsed: "To relieve from the
terrible effects of running a nail in the foot of man or horse take
peach-leaves, bruise tbera, apply to the wound, and confine with a bandage.
They cure as if by magic in most cases. Renew the application twice a day, if
necessary, but one application usually does the work. It has cured both man and
horse In a few hours, when they were apparently on the point of having the
lock-jaw. This recipe, remembered and practiced, will save many valuable
lives."

are usually headache, vertigo, dimness of vision, nausea, often developing into
coma, or even delirium or convulsions, ending in many cases in insanity,
softening of the brain, or death.

Hints for the Prevention of Sunstroke.—For the prevention of nunttroke, the
following are hints, especially when there is tendency to a hot brain:

Wear a light-colored, well-ventilated hat.

Avoid meats and other heating foods. Eat plenty of fruit.

Wet the hair on the temples and top of the head often, but not behind.

If the hot brain pressure is felt coming on,'dash cold water on the face and
temples, or in the absence of that, clasp and squeeze both temples with the
fingers to crowd the blood back, and rub the back of the neck powerfully to
draw the blood from the brain.

Where special danger is apprehended, wear a eool, wet bandage around the
forehead and head.

Treatment of Sunstroke.—The patient should be removed at once to a cool room,
and placed in a recumbent position near an open window. The clothes are then
stripped off, and a stream of water poured over the body. The vessel containing
the liquid is to be held four or five feet above the patient, in order that he
may receive the benefit of the shock. The stream of water should, at first be
directed on the head, then on the chest and abdomen, and finally on the
extremities, and thus alternating from one part to another, until consciousness
returns. Ice rubbed over the body is liked by some; the cold douche is,
however, preferable.

Internal medication is useful in all cases. Among the numerous drugs employed,
bromide of potassium has been found most efficient. The best results were
obtained from its use in Bellevue Hospital, in the years 1866 and 1868. This
drug may be administered in all stages of the affection. When the patient is
unable to swallow, it can be given by injection, always remembering to increase
the dose one quarter more than when given by mouth. In mild cases, from five to
ten grains may be given, at intervals of from half an hour to one hour, until
the grave symptoms disappear. In several forms from ten to thirty grains may be
administered every half hour; when the pulse becomes weak or intermittent,
stimulants are needed. Stimulation should be resorted to in all cases where
exhaustion is the prominent feature. Brandy and milk, or brandy with ammonia,
must be introduced into the stomach or rectum. The cold douche must be
sparingly employed in this latter class of cases. If the skin is cold, it will
do no good whatever.

Treatment of Sunstroke after Recovery.—After consciousness has returned,
mustard plasters or blisters are to be applied to the back of the neck. The
bromide need not be discontinued for one or two weeks. As soon

as convenient, the patient should be sent to a cool district in the country,
and kept free from excitement. The brain must rest from all work. Exercise in
the open air and nourishing diet are essential; regular habits must be rigidly
enforced. A continuance of this treatment for several months prevents, or at
least lessens, the danger from nervous affections which follow sunstroke.

Lightning Stroke: Preliminary Dangers: Important Hints.—After a thorough
examination, an able medical professor states that " when persons happen to be
overtaken by a thunder-storm, although they may not be terrified by lightning,
yet they naturally wish for shelter from the rain which usually attends it;
and, therefore, if no house be at hand, generally take refuge under the nearest
tree they can find. But in doing this they unknowingly expose themselves to a
double danger; first, because their clothes being thus kept dry, their bodies
are rendered more liable to injury, the lightning often passing harmlessly over
a body whose surface is wet; and, secondly, because a tree or any elevated
object, instead of warding off, serves to attract and conduct the lightning,
which in its passage frequently rends its trunks or branches, and kills any
person or animal who happens to be close to it at the time. Instead of
hay-rick, pillar, wall, or hedge, the person should either pursue his way to
the nearest house, or get to a part of the road or field which has no object
that can draw lightning toward it, and remain there until the storm has
subsided.

"It is particularly dangerous to stand near leaden spouts o'r iron gates at
such times; metals of all kinds have so strong a conducting power for lightning
as frequently to lead it out of the course it would otherwise have taken.

"When in the house avoid standing near a window, door, or walls during a
thunder-gust. The nearer you are placed to the middle of a room the better.

"When a person is struck by lightning, strip the body and throw buckets full of
cold water over it for ten or fifteen minutes; let continued frictions and
inflations of the lungs be also practiced; let gentle shocks of electricity be
made to pass through the chest, when a skillful person can be procured to
administer them; and apply blisters to the chest."

Apoplexy: Nature and Cause. *—Apoplexy is caused by an unnatural amount of
blood in the brain. Whatever sends too much to the brain may cause apoplexy.
Whatever keeps the blood from coming from the brain dams it up, and may cause
apoplexy. This is the kind of apoplexy which seems

* From the suddenness of the attack and the apparent causelessness of It, the
Greeks connected it In their minds with the idea of a stroke of lightning as
coming from the Almighty hand; ft literally means Ma stroke from above." As
InsUtntaneous as the hurling of a thunderbolt in a clear sky, there comes a
loss of sense, and feeling, and thought, and motion; the heart beats, the lungs
play, but that is all—they soon cease forever, The Romans considered the person
to be "thunderstruck" or planet struck, as if It were of unearthly origin.—J.
W. Howk.

to come without any apparent adequate cause. Tying a cord around the neck, or
holding the head downward too long, can bring on an attack of apoplexy, by
damming up the blood in the brain, and keeping it from returning to tin' body.
A sudden mental emotion can send too much blood to the bra.n, or too great
mental excitement does the same thing.

Immediate Treatment of Apoplexy.—AVhen a man is asleep his pulse bents and his
lungs play; he is without sense, and can be easily awakened.

If a person faints, he too is without sense, but he has no pulse, and does not
breathe. Apoplexy is between the two; the heart beats, the lungs play as in
sleep, and there is no sense as in fainting, but you can't shake the man back
to life.

In sleep the face is natural.

In a fainting fit it has the pallor of death.

In apoplexy it is swollen, turbid, and fairly livid.

If a man is asleep, let him alone; nature will wake him up as soon as he has
got sleep enough.

When a person faints, all that is necessary is to lay him down on the floor,
and he will "come to."

In apoplexy »et a man up* Then give him rest. Keep the head raised, and put
cool cloths upon it. Put mustard plasters on the calves of the legs. These may
draw the blood from the head. In difficult cases, strong purgatives should be
given, and sometimes these should be accompanied by electric or galvanic
action. After recovery the extent of the liability of another attack cannot be
estimated. In a majority of cases, among persons of prudent, careful life,
there is no relapse.

How to Treat Delirious Patients.—Avoid any roughness in dealing with such
cases, but be firm, and do not permit them to know you are afraid of them or
inclined to let them have their own way. Do not attempt to argue with them or
contradict any of their assertions, but at the same time it is well to appear
interested in their conversation. See that all escape is prevented. See that
there are no knives or dangerous weapons within reaoh. Immediate aid should be
within call.

Convulsions, and How to Stop Them.—Some children are liable to convulsions from
derangement of the digestive organs. They sometimes occur when a child is
teething. The attack is often preceded by involuntary

* In apoplexy, as there is too much blood In the head, every one con see that
the position Is to set a man up, and the blood naturally tends downward—as much
so as water will coma out of a bottle when It Is turned upside down, if the
cork is out.

If, then, a man 1b merely asleep, let him alone, for the face is natural.

If a man has fainted, lay him flat on his back, fir his face b. leadly pale.

If a man Is apoplectic, set him in a chair, because the face Is swollen and
Hvl4 with ]ts excetw of blood.

movements of the mouth or eyelids; then the eyes become fixed and the body
rigid, the breathing is irregular, often suspended for a few moments, and the
face and surface of the body becomes dark red or livid. This is followed by
twitching or jerking of the limbs, and often the arms and the legs, and the
muscles of the face. The attendant should at once prepare a warm bath, and the
child be immersed in the water up to the head, which should have cold water
applied to it. It should be kept in the bath until the convulsions cease,
keeping up the temperature to about 98°. After the bath, wrap the child in a
warm blanket.

EMERGENCIES-DROWNING.

What to Do in Case of Drowning.*—When a drowned person is taken from the water
he must be treated on the spot, in the open air. On no account waste precious
time by removing him to a house, unless the weather is intensely cold. Secure a
return of breathing first—protecting him from the severe cold by coats,
blankets, etc., if necessary—and then take him into a house Keep bystanders off
twelve or fifteen feet, while three (or, at most, four) stout persons manage
the patient. Loosen all tight clothing.

To Restore Breathing.—Place the patient upon his face, with his chest

[graphic]

.Fio. 1.

resting on a good cushion, (as a coat folded,) and one arm brought under his
forehead, (see Fig. 1.) In this position the fluid will escape from the mouth,
throat, and mostly from the lungs. The tongue itself will also fall forward,
and thus leave the entrance to the windpipe free. The mouth may be wiped out
quickly with a fold of the handkerchief over one's forefinger. Press gently
between the shoulder-blades and on the sides. On no account lift the patient to
his feet, or even to a sitting posture, even for a moment, as such a position
causes the water to sink to the bottom of the lungs, and might utterly strangle
a patient who was gasping for breath.

•Reprinted from Tlie Phyxio-Mefiical Recorder, Cincinnati, by the courtesy of
whose editor and publisher, Wm. H. Cook, M.D., the article, with its
illustrations, is here inserted.

Possibly the patient may struggle into breathing so soon as the water escapes
from his mouth. If so, manage him as hereafter described for this stage of
recovery. If he should not now recover, do not keep him on his face more than
one-fourth of a minute at the furthest; but remove the hands from making
pressure on the sides and back, and turn him fully upon one side, no matter
whether right or left, as in Fig. 2. Support the head

[graphic]

Via.t. ''''

while doing this, and also hold up the arm that was previously under the
forehead. Some smelling-salts or snuff may be placed to the nose in the hope of
exciting a breathing effort, but not too abundantly; or a feather may be used
to tickle the throat. Be careful not to roll the patient so far upon his back
as to have the tongue fall back upon the windpipe; and if it is observed thus
to fall, pull it forward quickly.

The position upon the side must not be maintained longer than a few seconds. If
the patient then show no signs of returning life, he must be rolled upon the
face, precisely as in the position first named—making pressure between the
shoulder-blades and upon the sides of the cheat, as before. This position upon
the face causes (or imitates) the natural action of lungs and chest in the
expiration of breath; while the position upon the sido imitates the inspiration
of breath. These two movements may now be repeated regularly, as a close
resemblance to the natural act of breathing. They should be made at the rate of
not more than fifteen times in a minute, or once in four seconds. There is much
liability that they will be made oftener; but this must be carefully guarded
against. The turning upon the side had better be alternated from right to left.
At the moment of turning from the face to the side, all pressure must be
removed from the trunk; and it will be well also to lift upward the free arm,
so that its weight shall not drag across the chest and compress the lungs. If
the tongue should be disposed to fall backward, it had better be drawn pretty
well forward b*y passing a cord behind Its thick part and out of the corners of
the mouth—then tying the cord under the chin. Smelling salts may be applied
occasionally, but not too often nor too freely.

[graphic]

While carrying on the above operations, dry the hands and feet gently without
much rubbing, and gently put on dry clothing; and be sure not to let the act of
changing the clothes interfere in the least with either the regularity or the
completeness of the above movements. These movements often suffice to restore
signs of life in a few minutes. If no such signs are apparent after eight or
ten minutes of such efforts, the position may be changed, and different
movements made as follows:—

The water being thoroughly worked out of the lungs by the above movements,
place the patient upon his back upon a board or other flat surface. Let this
incline upward a little from the feet to the head. Support the head and
shoulders on a small but firm cushion, extending down to the lower edge of the
shoulder-blades, such as a folded coat. Di>aw the patient's tongue strongly
forward, even beyond the lips, and keep it thus by a tape or string,

as before named. Now take a position at the patient's head, grasp his arms just
above the elbows, and draw them gently (but steadily and firmly) upward, as in
Fig. 3. Keep them well stretched in this position for two seconds. This
movement elevates the whole ribs, enlarges the capacity of the chest, and puts
the parts in a position favorable for the ingress of air. Next bend the
patient's elbows, turn the arms downward, and press them gently but firmly
against the sides of the chest, as in Fig. 4. Keep them in this position for
two seconds, during which time the air will be pressed out of the lungs. The
first or upward position of the arms is now to be resumed; and these movements
are thus to be continued perseveringly at the rate of not more than fifteen
times to the minute. This latter plan is called the Sylvester plan.

These movements must be continued without any remission whatever; nor should
such efforts cease because signs of life do not return soon. It is not

[graphic][merged small]

uncommon for such efforts to prove successful at the end of two hours; and
several cases are on record in which no symptoms of returning life were seen
until the fourth, and even the fifth, hour of unremitting labor, and then the
attendants were rewarded by the recovery of the patient.

To Restore Circulation.—The above measures are directed wholly to re storing
the breath. This is the first necessity. There should be no rubbing of the
surface, except gently, to dry it, while this is going on. Should the
inclemency of the weather demand the removal of the patient in-doors, the above
movements must be kept up, even while he is being removed; and on no account
should he be taken into a warm or crowded room.

When the patient begins to breathe, commence rubbing the limbs. Rub them upward
with considerable briskness and pressure. Use flannels somewhat warmed; throw a
quilt or blanket over the patient, and continue friction under this. Put two or
three layers of warm flannel on the stomach; and warm bricks, or bottles of
warm water, may be put at the feet, between the thighs, and under the arm-pits;
but be very careful not to have these things too warm, or much above the
temperature of the healthy body. As they get cool, replace them with others of
the right warmth. As consciousness returns, give him a spoonful of weak
ginger-tea every five minutes, and, as he gets stronger, use the tea stronger
and in larger quantities, or give a tea of composition instead of ginger.
Brandy, and other alcoholic drinks are the worst stimulants that could be
given. Black pepper, red pepper, or allspice, are far better. When the pulse
has been restored, encourage a disposition to sleep.

Recovery Twelve Hours after Drowning.—A correspondent of the Christian Advocate
sends us an account of the drowning at Osceola Mills, some five years ago, of
two little boys, Willie and Charlie, aged four and six years. They were on the
bank of the Big Moshanon Creek, fishing, and both fell in. They were seen by
the father, near by, who hastened to their relief, but were not recovered until
life was apparently extinct. Charlie was under water eight or ten minutes. The
correspondent adds :—

The children were carried home by the parents, a physician sent for to
Philipsburgh, a distance of five miles. In the meantime a fire was made in the
cook-stove, a lounge placed behind it, and Charlie placed thereon, rolled up in
warm blankets, and thoroughly rubbed with brandy; brandy was also forced down
his throat. The physician came, but could do nothing more than had been done.
The neighbors came and went until midnight, leaving Charlie for dead. Though
all others gave up the hope of restoring Charlie, the mother continued to rub
him, and keep him warm until three o'clock the next morning, when he opened his
eyes, and, looking his mother in the face, exclaimed, "Mamma, what am I doing
here?" The accident happened about three o'clock the previous afternoon, making
twelve hours from the time he was drowned until he showed life, or spoke.

How to Bring a Drowning Person to Shore.—The proper method of bringing a
drowning man to shore, is to approach him from behind. Seize him with your left
hand by the hair, coat-collar, or shoulder. Turn him upon his back, and then
place his head upon your chest, and, with your right arm free, swim upon your
back to the land. (If by the left hand alone it be too difficult to turn him
upon his back, apply, in addition, the right hand to his right shoulder, and
the turning will be easily accomplished.) If he be conscious, encourage him,
and direct him to straighten out his legs. *

* If the drowning man be out of bight under the water, wateh carefully for the
rising of R bubble upon the surface; he will usually be found directly below
it.

Fractures. — There are simple, compound, and comminuted fractures. When a bone
is broken in one place, without any external wound, it is

a simple fracture; when there is an external wound leading down to the broken
bone, it is compound; and when a bone is broken in two or more places, as when
a splinter of bone is broken off, the fracture is comminuted.

As soon as the fracture is suspected, the surgeon should be summoned. He will
be able at once to determine the nature and extent of the injury, and to summon
to his aid one of the various appliances which have >S|ibeen invented for re1
lief of patients in such i an emergency. The

[graphic]

will illustrate the construction and application of: "splints" * for fractures
thus far brought to the attention of the public.

[graphic]

The first splint is for the arm, the second for the leg. Both hear the highest
commendation, and are in extensive use by the medical profession, and may be
purchased at small cost.

* Invented by H. L. Richardson, M.D., Physician and Surgeon, West Washington
Place, New York, and sold by the manufacturers, W. Pomemy & Co., New York.

POULTICES AND THEIR APPLICATION.

General Purpose of a Poultice.—The use of poultices is to promote warmth and
moisture; hence those which keep warm and moist the longest are the best. They
are employed in the treatment of abscesses, suppurating wounds, inflammation,
and pain. In makmg them the attendant should have them smooth, light, and as
hot as they can be made without burning in their application.

1. Bread Poultice. Cold, light wheat bread, soaked in sweet milk, makes good
ones.

2. Beet Poultice. A beet fresh from the garden, and pounded fine, makes an
excellent poultice.

3. Linseed-meal Poultice. In preparing this, the basin should be scalded in
which it is made. Tour in boiling water, according to the size of the poultice
required. Add gradually sufficient linseed-meal to form a thick paste, stirring
it one way until it is of the proper consistency and smoothness; then spread it
on linen or muslin, and apply it.

4. Charcoal Poultice. Take two ounces of bread in crumbs, soak for ten minutes
in boiling water—say ten ounces; then mix and add gradually a half an ounce of
pulverized charcoal and a half an ounce of linseed-meal, well stirred together;
spread as above, and apply.

5. Cldorinated Soda Poultice is made like linseed-meal poultice; consisting of
two parts of linseed-meal poultice, to one of chlorinated soda, mixed with
boiling water.

6. Yeast Poultice is made by mixing a pound of flour or linseed-meal with half
a pint of yeast; heat it, and stir it carefully. All poultices are made with
boiling water, except yeast, and with this the temperature should not be over
100°.

7. Mustard Poultice. Take a sufficient quantity of powdered mustard to make a
thin paste of the required size. It should be mixed with boiling water, with a
small quantity of vinegar added, if a very strong poultice is required. Spread
it on brown paper or linen, with a piece of thin muslin over it. It should be
kept on from ten to twenty minutes. If the skin is very irritable afterward, a
little flour should be sprinkled over it. By mixing the mustard with the white
of an egg, the poultice will not cause a blister.

8. Mustard and Linseed Poultice. These poultices are often mixed with
linseed-meal when a milder form is required than of mustard alone. After the
use of any kind of mustard poultice, the skin should be carefully wiped with
something very soft, so that no mustard be left behind. One of the best mustard
poultices is the paper plaster now sold by every druggist. It is always ready,
and can be carried by a traveler. It has only to be dipped in water, and
applied at once.

BRIEF CURES FOR VARIOUS DISEASES.

Colds—Seven Important Remedies.—A cold, like measles or mumps, or other similar
ailments, will run its course of about ten days in spite of what may be done
for it, unless remedial means are employed within forty-eight hours after its
inception. Many a useful life will be spared to be increasingly useful by
cutting a cold "short off" before it has taken firm hold on the system. The
following are safe, simple, and authenticated remedies :—

1. On the first day of taking a cold there is a very unpleasant sensation of
chilliness. The moment you observe this, go to your room and stay there; keep
it at such a temperature as will entirely prevent this chilly feeling, even if
it requires a hundred degrees of Fahrenheit. In addition, put your feet in hot
water, half a leg deep, as hot as you can bear it, adding hot water from time
to time for a quarter of an hour, so that the water shall be hotter when you
take your feet out than when you put them in it: then dry them thoroughly, and
then put on warm, thick woolen stockings, even if it be summer, for summer
colds arc the most dangerous; and for twenty-four hours eat not an atom of
food, but drink as largely as you desire of any kinds of warm teas, and at the
end of that time, if not sooner, the cold will be effectually broken without
any medicine whatever.

2. Dio Lewis's remedy is the use of cold water as follows: "Eat no supper. On
going to bed drink two tumblers of cold water. On rising in the morning drink
freely of cold water. For breakfast eat a piece of dry bread as large as your
hand. Go out freely during the morning. For dinner eat about the same as you
ate at breakfast. During the afternoon take a sharp walk, or engage in some
active exercise which shall produce a little perspiration. Go without your
supper and retire early, drinking, before you jump into bed, as much cold water
as you can swallow."

8. Many colds are from over-eating or eating gross food. Strong persons with
large lungs who exercise a great deal and breathe much, can dispose of a large
quantity of food, but the feeble and sedentary must eat moderately, or break
down early; for this kind of a cold one preventive is worth a dozen cures,
namely, cut off the supplies.

4. Dr. Paillon, of France, announces what he considers to be a new method oi
curing a cold in the head. It consists in inhaling through the nose the
emanations of ammonia contained in a smelling-bottle. If the sense of smell Is
completely obliterated, the bottle should be kept under the nose until the
pungency of the volatile alkali is felt. The bottle is then removed, but only
to be reapplied after a minute; the second application, however, should }iot be
long, that the patient may bear it. This easy operation being repeated seven or
eight times in the course of five minutes, but always very rapidly, except the
first time, the nostrils become free, the sense of smell is restored,

and the secretion of the irritating mucus is stopped. This remedy is said to be
peculiarly advantageous to singers.

5. Borax has proved a most effective remedy in certain forms of colds. In
sudden hoarseness or loss of voice in public speakers or singers, from colds,
relief for an hour or so, as by magic, may be often obtained by slowly
dissolving and partially swallowing a lump of borax the size of a garden pea,
or about three or four grains, held in the mouth for ten minutes before
speaking or singing. This produces a profuse secretion of saliva, or "watering
" of the mouth and throat, probably restoring the voice or tone to the dried
vocal cords, just as "wetting " brings back the missing notes to a flute when
it is too dry.

6. The following is an excellent and safe remedy for children: Take onions,
slice thin, and sprinkle loaf-sugar over them; put in the oven, and simmer
until the juice is thoroughly mixed with the sugar. It makes a thick syrup,
very nice. Give a teaspoonful as seems to be needed, four or five times a day.

1. Dr. George M. Beard, (Allopathist,) a well-known medical lecturer and
writer, strongly recommends the following formula or prescription, suggested
originally by one of his patients, and since often given by Dr. B. Take of
camphor, two parts; powdered opium, one part; carbonate of ammonia, two parts.
Dissolve the camphor to the thickness of cream, and then add the opium and
ammonia. Let it be prepared by the druggist. Keep the bottle tightly corked,
and take a dose just before retiring at night. Dose, from three to six grains
in a little water. The druggist who puts up the powder will show the buyer the
quantity to be taken. It should be kept on hand at all times, and should be
first taken immediately after being chilled through, and should be repeated the
following night.

How to Relieve Severe Coughs—Seven Good Recipes.—1. The paroxysm of coughing
may often be prevented or cured by using a little dry salt as a gargle. Let
those who doubt try it. It will relieve the tickling in the throat.

2. Equal parts of hoarhound, elecampane root, comfrey root, spikenard, and
wild-cherry bark. Boil in one gallon soft water down to one quart; strain, and
add one pound of honey. Take a tablespoonful three times a day, or when the
cough is troublesome.

3. Roast a lemon very carefully without burning it; when it is thoroughly hot,
cut and squeeze it into a cup upon three ounces of sugar, finely powdered. Take
a spoonful whenever your cough troubles you. It is good and agreeable to the
taste. Karely has it been known to fail of giving relief.

4. Take one quart thick flaxseed tea, one pint of honey, half pint of vinegar,
two spoonfuls saltpeter. Boil all together in a new earthen pot that is well
glazed, until it becomes a pretty thick syrup; keep stirring while boiling with
a pine stick; if fresh from a green tree the better. Dose, one tablespoonful
three or four times a day.

6. A medical writer says: "We are often troubled with severe coughs, the result
of colds of long standing, which may turn to consumption or premature death.
The remedy I propose has been often tried by me, with good results, which is
simply to take into the stomach before retiring for the night a piece of raw
onion, after chewing. This esculent in an uncooked state is very heating, and
tends to collect the waters from the lungs and throat, causing immediate relief
to the patient."

6. Common sweet cider, boiled down to one half, makes a most excellent syrup
for coughs and colds for children—is pleasant to the taste, and will keep for a
year in a cool cellar. In recovering from an illness, the system has a craving
for some pleasant acid drink. This is found in cider which is placed on the
fire as soon as made, and allowed to come to a boil, then cooled, put in casks,
and kept in a cool cellar.

7. Take a handful of hops, put it into three pints of hot water; let it boil
one half hour, or until the strength is out. Strain and add one and one half
cups of best kind of molasses, and one cup of white sugar. Boil down slowly in
a bright dish or enameled kettle to about one quart. Then bottle up, and it is
ready for use. Drink a little when you cough.

Cures for Sore Throat.—1. Powdered potash held on the tongue and allowed to
dissolve is very good for sore throat when there are "white spots."

2. For clergymen's sore throat, use fluid extract Callinsonia and simple syrup,
equal parts. Take a teaspoonful three or four times a day.

3. Take the whites of two eggs and beat them in with two spoonfuls of white
sugar; grate in a little nutmeg, and then add a pint of hike-warm water. Stir
well and drink often. Repeat the prescription, if necessary. A practical
physician thinks it will cure the most obstinate case of hoarseness in a short
time.

4. One of the best of cures is a cold-water compress. Before going to bed, wet
a cotton-rag in cold water and wring it partially dry. Put it closely around
the throat, and wrap around it a large piece of flannel to keep the moisture
in. In the morning, bathe the throat in cold water and rub briskly with a
coarse towel to prevent catching cold.

5. Every body has a cure for this trouble, but simple remedies appear to lie
most effectual. Salt and water is used by many as a gargle, but a little alum
and honey dissolved in sage-tea is better. Others use a few drops of camphor on
loaf sugar, which very often affords immediate relief. An application of cloths
wrung out of hot water and applied to the neck, changed as often as it begins
to cool, has the most potency in removing inflammation.

Headache—Five Different Remedies Suggested.—1. Much sickheadache is caused by
overloading the stomach—by indigestion. It may be relieved by drinking very
freely of warm water, whether it produces vomiting or not. If the feet are
cold, warm them or bathe them in water as hot as you can bear it. Soda or ashes
in the water will do good. If the pain is very severe, apply a cloth wrung out
of hot water to the head— pack the head as it were. To prevent it, let
plainness, simplicity, and temperance preside at your table. In some cases
medicine is necessary; but if the above is properly carried out, almost
immediate relief is experienced.

2. One-fourth of a grain of ipecac, repeated every half hour or hour, has
relieved many cases of nervous sick-headache, and if the ipecac is continued in
one to three-grain doses three or four times daily, a cure will frequently
result—at least the intervals will be prolonged.

3. "The people about the Jumna and Tonsee rivers, India," says Mr. Wilson,
"have this way of treating a common headache: They lie down by the fire, and
with the forehead as near to it as bearable. It is a very good one, I believe.
I have tried it myself with success when my own remedy failed.*

4. Dr. Warburton Begbie, of Edinburgh, advocates the use of turpentine in the
severe headache to which nervous and hysterical women are subject. "There is,
moreover," he says, "another class of sufferers from headache, and this is
composed of both sexes, who may be relieved by turpentine. I refer to the
frontal headache, which is most apt to occur after prolonged mental effort, but
may likewise be induced by unduly sustained physical exertion—what may be
styled the headache of a fatigued brain. A cup of very strong tea often
relieves this form of headache, but this remedy with not a few is perilous,
for, bringing relief from pain, it may produce general restlessness, and, worst
of all, banish sleep. Turpentine in doses of 20 to 30 minims, given at
iutervals of an hour or two, will entirely remove the headache.

5. A much simpler cure than any of the above, and one more likely to be
permanently effective, is to stop drinking tea. Try it. See our chapter on "Tea
and Coffee and Health," p. 103.

Indigestion and Dyspepsia—Pour Remedies.—1. Many of the Welsh peasants live
almost wholly upon oatmeal-cakes and buttermilk, and seldom suffer from
indigestion. The acid (lactic acid) in the buttermilk is regarded as a promoter
of digestion.

2. Dyspepsia is cured by muscular exercise, voluntary or involuntary, and in no
other way can it be cured, because nothing can create or collect the gastric
juice except exercise; it is a product of the human machine. Nature only can
make it.

* Medical and Surgical R<'porier.

8. A dyspeptic once read that by sending a dollar to a person in Sevr York he
would receive a cure for dyspepsia. On sending the money he was sent a printed
slip with these words: "Stop drinking and hoe in the garden." The roan was
angry at first, then laughed, and finally stopped drinking and "hoed in the
garden." The result was in a short time he was as well as ever. There is more
in this cure than would appear at first sight.*

4. A Southern gentleman says: "For something near two years I had suffered with
dyspepsia and soreness of the gastric organs. During that time I used several
different preparations, and advised with every physician I met, but still could
get no permanent relief. Four or five months ago I commenced the use of a
remedy that has proved very beneficial to me. Here it is: Every night before I
retire, and every morning just as soon as I rise, I give myself a good pounding
all over the breast and stomach, breathing long, full breaths frequently during
the operation, and throwing my arms in every direction. I followed this course
energetically for some time. Now I have no symptoms of dysplpsia, and the
soreness in my stomach, which gave me an untold amount of annoyance, has almost
entirely disappeared. Of course the pounding must be light and moderate at
first. This remedy is simple, and can be used by all."

Biliousness—Its Symptoms and Cure.—Bad blood, too much blood, giving headache,
bad taste in the mouth mornings, variable appetite, sickness at stomach,
chilliness, cold feet, and great susceptibility to taking cold; no one person
may have all these symptoms when bilious, but one or more is always present.

Sometimes a bilious person has a yellow tinge in the face and eyes called
"bilious," because the bile, which is yellow, is not withdrawn from the blood;
it is the business of the liver to do that, but when it does not do it it is
said to be lazy, does not work, and the physician begins at once to use
remedies which are said to "promote the action of the liver."

It has been discovered within a few years that acids " act on the liver," such
as nitric acid, elixir vitriol, vinegar; but these are artificial acids, and do
not have the uniform good effect of natural acids—those which are found in
fruit and berries.

Almost all persons become bilious as the warm weather comes on; nine

* A Very Suggestive Cure.—If any dyspeptic young lady wiU take five pounds of
loose-waiatedness, four of short skirtedness, three of bodily cleanliness and
warmly-clothedness, an4 with these take a stomach moderately full of unseasoned
fruits and vegetables, and unbolted, nnfermented bread, two or three times a
day, with nothing between excepting occasionally a gill, or half a gill, of
pure soft water, mixed well with out-of-door exercise, pure fresh air, and
plenty of sunshine for both 8"nl and body, she will be cured of the dyspepsia,
or almost any other ill that flesh is heir to, without "aloes," " alcohol," or
any other poisonous abominations.

times out of ten nature calls for her own cure, as witness the almost universal
avidity for "greens," for "spinach," in the early spring, these being eaten
with vinegar; and soon after, by the benign arrangement of Providence, the
delicious strawberry comes, the raspberry, the blackberry, the whortleberry;
then the cherries and peaches and apples, carrying us clear into the fall of
the year, when the atmosphere is so pure and bracing that there is general good
health every-where.

The most beneficial anti-bilious method of using fruits and berries as health
promoters is to take them at dessert, after breakfast and dinner; to take them
in their natural, raw, ripe, fresh state, without cream or sugar, or any thing
else beside the fruit themselves.

Half a lemon eaten every morning on rising, and on retiring, is often
efficacious in removing a bilious condition of the system, giving a good
appetite and greater general health.

First, on getting up and going to bed, drin,k plenty of cold water. Eat for
breakfast, until the bilious attack passes, a little stale bread, say one
slice, and a piece as large as your hand of boiled lean beef or mutton. If the
weather is warm, take instead a little cracked wheat, or oatmeal porridge. For
dinner take about the same thing. Go without your supper. Exercise freely in
the open air, producing perspiration, once or twice a day. In a few days your
biliousness is all gone. This result will come, even though the biliousness is
one of the spring sort, and one with which you have, from year to year, been
much afflicted. Herb drinks, bitter drinks, lagerbeef, ale, whisky, and a dozen
other spring medicines, are simply barbarous.*

Diarrhoea and Dysentery—Nine Remedies.—1. In all cases of diarrhoea, dysentery,
etc., perfect rest should be enjoined, which adds more to the removal of the
difficulty than the too-frequent use of medicine. A recumbent position is best.

2. Parched corn and meal, boiled in skimmed milk, and fed frequently to
children suffering from summer diarrhoea, will almost always cure, as it will
dysentery in adults, and often the cholera in its earliest stages.

3. Common rice, parched brown like coffee, and then boiled and eaten in the
ordinary way, without any other food, is, with perfect quietude of the body,
one of the most effective remedies for troublesome looseness of the bowels.

4. Put a quarter pound of oat-meal, an ounce and a half of sugar, half a
teaspoonful of salt, and three pints of water, into a stew-pan, boil slowly
twenty minutes, stir continually. Before serving, add one pint boiled milk, one
ounce butter, and a little pounded spice.

[ocr errors]

B. A spoonful or two of pure, raw wheat-flour, thinned with water so it can be
easily drunk. Three or four doses, taken at intervals of ten or twelve hours,
will generally cure any case not absolutely chronic. To make the dose palatable
for children, it can be sweetened, and flavored with some drops not acid.

6. A physician says: "My attention was called, a short time since, to a novel,
but nevertheless successful, remedy. While rendering medical assistance to an
extremely sick patient with an obstinate attack of cholera morbus, all my
remedies were of no effect until, by request, a large onion was peeled and cut
in half, and one half placed in each arm-pit. In several attacks since that
time have I seen this remedy promptly control the incessant vomiting, and
relieve the distressing nausea."

1. Take one gill of rice, and place in a spider over the fire, stirring it
constantly until thoroughly brown. Do not burn it. As soon as it is thoroughly
brown, fill the spider with boiling water, and let it boil till the mass is of
the consistency of thin paste. If the rice is not cooked perfectly soft, add a
little more water and let it boil away again. Be careful at the last moment
that it does not bum on the bottom. When cooked soft, turn into a bowl, sweeten
with loaf or crushed sugar, and salt to suit the taste. Eat in milk.

8. For diarrhoea in children, take one cup wheat flour, and tie in a stout
cloth, and drop in cold water; then set over the fire and boil three hours
steadily. After it is cold, remove the cloth and crust formed by boiling. The
ball thus prepared can be kept ready for use for any length of time. To use,
grate a tablespoonful for a cupful of boiling water and milk—each one-half. Wet
up the flour with a very little cold water; stir in, and boil five minutes.
Sweeten to taste. Use a little salt, if desired.

9. Nothing is easier to check than chronic diarrhoea, if it is of the genuine
kind, which you may know by the symptom of a clean, very smooth tongue. If the
tongue is not clean and smooth, the diarrhoea may be an effort of nature to
clean you out, and you had best let it alone. If it is really chronic
diarrhoea, take pills of opium and tannin, (provided they are prescribed by
your physician,) one grain of each, at intervals during a few days, and it will
stop the trouble. But stop using the pills as soon as possible, or you may have
trouble of an opposite kind.

Constipation—Cause and Cure. —Over-indulgence in animal food is a frequent
cause of constipation. No nation consumes such quantities of flesh meats, and
so many times a day, as the American. Dyspepsia and constipation result. The
rapidity with which we eat, and which causes dyspepsia, ia equaled by the
carelessness, the hurry, and the neglect which we inflict upon the colon and
rectum. A neglect of a regular and proper hour to evacuate the bowe.ls often
induces constipation.

/

Abstain from tea and coffee, eat plenty of fresh vegetables, drink a glass of
water immediately after rising in the morning, eat slowly, and masticate the
food well, avoid salt meats and salt fish, and take one tablespoonful of
sulphur every other night upon retiring.

Cures for Boils.—1. An experienced and well-known New York physician *
prescribes the following cure for boils: Procure one ounce horse-radish root,
one ounce yellow-dock root, and one quart of cider. Boil ten minutes. Drink a
wine-glassful three times a day. The physician referred to hinted, sub rosa, 
that the cider need not be continued after the boils are cured.

2. As soon as the characteristic culminating point of a boil makes its
appearance, put in a saucer a thimbleful of camphorated alcohol, and, dipping
the ends of the middle fingers into the liquid, rub the inflamed surface,
especially the middle portion, repeating the operation eight or ten times,
continuing the rubbing at each time for about half a minute. Then allow the
surface to dry, placing a slight coating of camphorated olive-oil over the
affected surface. One such application, in almost all such cases, causes boils
to dry up and disappear. The application should be made at morning, noon, and
in the evening. The same treatment will cure whitlows, and all injuries of tips
of fingers. As soon as pain and redness appear, the fingers should be soaked
for ten minutes in camphorated sweet-oil. The relief is said to be immediate,
and three applications are generally enough to afford a cure.

To Prevent and Cure Ulcers.—1. Dried and pulverized clay applied to an ulcer
will cure it in a short time, and leave no scar.

2. Petroleum has been used, with good results, as an external application to
ulcers and wounds. It may be used undiluted or diluted with equal parts of oil
or glycerine.

8. Dicers caused by cyanide of potassium, so much used by photographers, may be
guarded against by rubbing the hands, when soiled with it, with a mixture of
photo-sulphate of iron reduced to a very fine powder, and linseed oil.

Felons—Eight Thoroughly-Tested Cures.—1. Take a pint of common soft soap, and
stir in air-slaked lime till it is of the consistency of glazier's putty. Make
a leather thimble, fill it with this composition, and insert the fingers
therein, and a cure is certain.

2. As soon as the parts begin to swell, get the tincture of lobelia, and wrap
the part affected with a cloth saturated thoroughly with the tincture^and the
felon is dead. An old physician says he has known it to cure in scores of
cases, and it never fails if applied in season.

•Dr. Walter Palmer.

3. As soon as the disease is felt, put directly over the spot a fly blister,
about the size of your thumb-nail, and let it remain for six hours, at the
expiration of which time, directly under the surface of the blister, may be
seen the felon, which can be instantly taken out with the point of a needle or
a lancet.

4. When the felon first appears, procure some poke root, and roast a piece
sufficient to cover your finger. When it is roasted tender, cut it open and
bind it on the felon as hot as can be borne; repeat this when the root becomes
dry, until the pain subsides. If the felon is too far advanced to "put back,"
this same remedy will hasten it on and cure it in a few days, as it softens the
skin.

5. Probe the swelling of the finger, making a small incision where the pain
appears greatest. The pain of the operation may be lessened by the local
application of ether or inhalation of chloroform. The after-treatment is
equally simple. The small wound is to be covered with lint and carbolic acid,
and bathed morning and evening in tepid water. In a few days it is perfectly
healed.

6. Take an earthen crock, put in a quantity of live coals, throw on a handful
each of hops, rye flour, and brown sugar; then steam the affected part for
about fifteen minutes, repeating two or three times, by holding it over the
vessel. The better way is to bore a hole through a board, thus having the
affected part only coming in contact with the steam. This is guaranteed as a
certain cure.

7. Elder Evans, the Shaker, says: "For the past ten years we have treated
felons with hot water, and with unerring success. No cutting, no blistering, no
any thing, but immersing the finger, hand, or even the whole arm if necessary,
in water as hot as can be borne, until the pain is gone, and the core is
loosened and drawn from the bone. When rusty nails have produced wounds, the
same course has been pursued. If on the hand or foot, keep it in hot water."

8. Take the root of the plant known as dragon root, Jack-in-the-pulpit, or
Indian turnip, either green or dry; grate about one half a teaspoonful into
four tablespoonfuls of sweet milk; simmer gently a few minutes, then thicken
with bread crumbs, and apply as hot as possible. This can be heated again two
or three times, adding a little milk each time. If the felon is just starting,
this will drive it back; if somewhat advanced, it will draw it out quickly and
gently. It is well to put a little tallow on the poultice, especially after
opening, to prevent sticking. This same poultice is good for a carbuncle or any
other rising.

Cancers—Important Methods of Prevention and Relief.—1. Gastric juice has
effected remarkable cures. External applications must be made three times a day
for about twenty days. The first application causes much pain, but this may be
lessened by the use of almond oil.

2. Several cases of cancer, and other malignant tumors, nave been speedily
cured by the application of acetic acid. In some instances of cure ~ry this
prescription, the cancers and tumors had been of long standing.

3. Take an egg and break it; pour out the white, retaining the yoke in the
shell; put in salt, and mix with the yoke as long as it will receive it; stir
them together until the salve is formed; put a portion of this on a piece of
sticking-plaster, and apply to the cancer about twice a day.

4. The exquisite pain which belongs to open cancer is found to be best relieved
by the stramonium ointment which is employed in London. The following is the
formula: IJalf a pound of fresh stramonium leaves, and two pounds of lard; mix
the bruised leaves with the lard, and expose to a mild heat until the leaves
become friable, and strain through lint. The ointment thus prepared is spread
upon lint, and the dressing changed three times a day.*

5. A large majority of the cases of cancerous tumors may be cured, or entirely
arrested and brought within safe limits, by the following management:

(1.) Wear a wet compress, covered with half a dozen thicknesses of dry flannel,
every night over the tumor. (2.) Go out much in the sun. (3.) Breathe full of
the purest air day and night. (4.) Eat the best beef and bread, and no trash.

(5.) Go to bed at eight o'clock, and sleep as long as possible. Lie down an
hour in the middle of every day, and try to sleep. (6.) Cultivate a cheerful,
jolly temper. (7.) Exercise freely every day in the open air.

(8.) Keep your skin open by a regular morning bath in soap and water.

Treatment of Scabies.—With regard to the efficacy of sulphur in the treatment
of this disease, Dr. Carl H. Smith, of Kenton, Ohio, writes the Boston Medical
and Surgical Journal that he has employed it, mixed with glycerine, to the
consistence of an ointment, in upwards of five hundred cases, in civil and army
practice, with unfailing success. In three or four days the disease
disappeared, in every instance, one or two applications having been made daily.

Whooping-Cough—Two Views of Giving Medicine.—1. Dr. Arnold, of Maryland,
discussed recently, at a meeting of the Medical Association, the question of
whooping-cough, in the following strain: "I am more and more impressed with the
little reliability of therapeutic remedies in this disease. We have so many
medicines presented for our acceptance; some based upon

0 Medical and Surgical Reporter.

certain pathological theories; some upon no theory at all, and others upon a
delusion. In my own family this disease prevailed; I did nothing for it, and it
got well in six weeks. If I had used medicines I would have thought that I had
cured it. We know nothing of its cause; there is great diversity in regard to
its pathology, and no unanimity of treatment. Many popular remedies are in use,
but in bad cases no remedy seems to be of any great benefit."

2. T. Prestwick, in the Lancet, (December 9, 1871,) reports over thirty eases
showing the value of cod-liver oil in whooping-cough. The improvement following
the use of the oil in his practice has been such that he considers it as a
specific for whooping-cough. As the spasmodic attacks of this complaint are
almost always preceded by inflammatory or catarrhal symptoms, these he treats
in the usual manner, and afterward administers the oil. It is a remarkable
circumstance that not one death has occurred when the oil has been administered
and has been retained on the stomach.

Group—Six Methods of Instant Relief.—One teaspoonful of molasses and a
teaspoonful of goose-oil, given to a child inclined to the croup, will
generally relieve it at once.

For speedy relief, take a knife or grater, and shave or grate off in small
particles about a teaspoonful of alum; mix it with about twice the quantity of
sugar or honey, to make it palatable, and administer as quickly as possib!:. 
This will give almost instant relief.

A lady correspondent of the Maine Farmer says the following is an effective
remedy for croup: "Half a teaspoonful of pulverized alum in a little molasses.
It is a simple remedy, one almost always at hand, and one dose seldom fails to
give relief. If it should, repeat it after one hour."

French physicians claim the discovery of a perfect cure for croup in flour of
sulphur exhibited in water. M. Lagauterie gives in croup teaspoonful doses of a
mixture of sulphur and water (a teaspoonful to a glass of water) every hour
with wonderful effects. Seven severe cases were cured in two days.

J. K. Holloway, M.D., in a letter to the Medical and Surgical Journal, 
describes the successful cure of a very extreme case of croup by causing the
patient to inhale the evaporations of lime-water. The patient had been
suffering for thirty-six hours with membraneous croup, and without relief from
other medicines. No time was to be lost. Lime unslaked was put into a pitcher.
A blanket was then so thrown over the patient and the pitcher as to cause the
inhalation of the free lime vapor. In twenty minutes the patient was fully
relieved.

Dr. D. W. Williams, of Liverpool, communicates the following to the British
Medidal Journal on the use of quinine in croup:—

"In 1862 I examined the trachea of three children who died of croup, and found
the mucous membrane covered with a yellowish-white' substance like

gruel, (muco-putriform matter,) the membrane itself being reddened. A crowquill
could have been passed down the tube without touching the substance which lined
its walls. There was nothing like blocking, nothing like tubes of false
membranes, (lymph,) yet my little patient died of slow suffocation.

"While thinking of these cases, one of my own children took the croup. The
usual remedies were adopted; but in a few hours the result could be but too
easily foretold; she was slowly choking. The restlessness and anxiety so well
known was great, and I asked myself these questions: 'Is this child dying from
inflammation and blocking of the trachea, or from a blood-poison, which
manifests itself in local inflammation and spasms?' Inclining to the latter
opinion, I gave her a grain of quinine, a large dose for a child twelve months
old. In twenty minutes the relief was surprising; the restlessness, etc.,
abated. In an hour a second grain was given, and the child fell asleep, and
made an excellent recovery, the quinine being continued in smaller doses. Since
this I have treated several cases in the same way, with similar result. In
bronchitis and pneumonia also, I find quinine of great value when the distress
is out of proportion to the amount of disease."

Hay-fever—Class of Persons Affected. — In a book entitled "Experimental
Researches on the Causes and Nature of Catarrhus jEstivus," (Hay-fever or
Hay-asthma,) Mr. Blackley published some very interesting conclusions
respecting this singular disease. He finds that it is peculiar to the educated
classes, but is not aristocratic, like the gout, being more common in
proportion to the spread of mental culture and the intensity of intellectual
occupation. And yet a highly-organized state of the mind is not the only
element in its propagation, for race-qualities seem to have a marked effect
upon it. Thus in Europe, it is most common in England, after which follow
Germany, France, Belgium, Switzerland, Scotland, Italy, Russia, and Ireland.
Climate, therefore, has no influence upon its propagation, for England and
Ireland, which are geographically contiguous, form the extremes of the above
list. Out of 152 patients, 81 were English, 36 Germans, and only 1 Irish.

Hay-fever—Causes.—As to the actual inciting cause of the disease, it has been
referred to summer heat, dust, ozone, the odors of flowers, the pollen of
blossoms, and especially of grasses. The authors experiments led him to the
conclusion that it is to the pollen of flowering plants (including grasses)
that the disease is due. He collected pollen-grains from the atmosphere, and
gives curves showing the number of grains which gathered on a square centimeter
of surface, from May 28 to August 1, 1866—the highest number, 880, falling on
June 28.

Hay-fever—Localities Most Affected.— By using kites he ascertained the
proportionate amount of pollen at high levels in the atmosphere, with the
somewhat remarkable result, that at 1,500 feet above the earth the pollen was
found to be more abundant than on the surface. The author found that germs and
spores of other plants generally outnumbered the pollen, and he thinks that "if
these should resemble pollen in its capacity for absorbing water and
discharging granular matter under the influence of moisture, we may have a form
of finely-divided vegetable and animal matter thrown into the air which the
best modern instruments might fail to discover the nature and origin of, but
which might, nevertheless, be a powerful cause of disease." As to the places
least likely to be affected by the disease, the author found hay-fever least
common in those localities where pollen is least likely to be plentiful, such
as the centers of large cities, the sea-shore, and high-lying districts given
up to pasturage.

Remedies for Hay-fever.—Dr. George M. Beard, in a new treatise ou the subject
of hay-fever, expresses the opinion (formed after extensive observation and
investigation concerning over two hundred cases) that the disease is not
amenable to any specific remedy; that the leading indications are
prevention—avoidance of heat, light, worry, dust, vegetable and animal
irritants, and other exciting causes, fortifying the system by tonics, before
and during the attack, and relieving the symptoms by sedatives and anodynes;
indications which are best met by resort to the sea-shore or to a sea-voyage,
high latitudes, and—for those who cannot avail themselves of such changes
—cool, closed, dark rooms.

Eruptive Fevers.—For the early stages, when the skin is hot, a warm bath, or
tepid sponging will be useful. Cleanse the eyes and nostrils with water and a
piece of lint as often as necessary. If small-pox, and the pustules have burst,
this is all that is practicable. Light poultices to the face will prevent
pitting. To allay itching, oil the pustules on the face and neck with olive-oil
and cold cream. The same will apply in scarlet-fever. In small-pox, the nurse
must examine the body; and if she finds any signs of abscesses forming, should
report to the physician; she should, also, use every precaution against
bed-sores.

Symptoms and Preventives of Fever.—Fevers, and many acute diseases, are often
preceded by a loss of appetite, headache, shivering, "pains in the bones,"
indisposition to work, etc. In such cases, sponge with tepid water, and rub the
body till all aglow. Go to bed, place hot bricks to the feet, take nothing but
a little gruel, or beef-tea, and drink moderately of warm, cream-of-tartar
water. If you do not feel better the next morning, call a physician. If that be
impossible, take a dose of castor-oil, or Epsomsalts.

Relief of Sea-sickness.—A distinguished physician writes: "In the greater
number of instances I allow the stomach to discharge its contents once or
twice, and then, if there is no organic disease, I give five drops of
chloroform in a little water, and, if necessary, repeat the dose in four or six
hours. The almost instant effect of this treatment, if conjoined with a few
simple precautions, is to cause an immediate sensation, as it ware, of warmth
in the stomach, accompanied by almost total relief of the nausea and sickness,
likewise curing the distressing headache, and usually causing a quiet sleep,
froVn which the passenger awakes quite well."

To Avoid Sea-siokness.—While sitting, avoid resting the feet on the floor. Be
seated so that the roll of the ship shall not pitch you forward or backward,
but from side to side. Whenevever the premonitory symptoms of sea-sickness
occur, do not fix attention on any near object; omit reading or writing; go to
meals regularly; eat sparingly, of plain food.

Temporary Relief for Neuralgia.— 1. A New Hampshire gentleman says: "Take two
large table-spoonfuls of cologne, and two tea-spoonfuls of fine salt; mix them
together i' a small bottle; every time you have any acute affection of the
facial nerves, or neuralgia, simply breathe the fumes into your nose from the
bottle, and you will be immediately relieved."

2. Prepare horse-radish by grating and mixing in vinegar, the same as for the
table, and apply to the temple, when the face or head is affected; or to the
wrist, when the pain is in the arm or shoulder.

Cure of Stammering.—The effectual cure mainly depends upon the determination of
the s..fferer to carry out the following rule: Keep the teeth close together,
and before attempting to speak, inspire deeply; then give time for quiet
utterance, and, after very slight practice, the hesitation will be relieved. No
spasmodic action of the lower jaw must be permitted to separate the teeth when
speaking.

MISCELLANEOUS HEALTH NOTES.

Pine Woods and Health.—The pleasant odor emitted by fir-trees in a sunny
atmosphere has long been thought serviceable to invalids, and the vicinity of
pine woods has been declared salubrious.

Danger of Cold Water in the Face.—It is dangerous to wash the face in cold
water when much heated. It is not dangerous, but pleasantly efficacious, if
warm water is used.

A Most Refreshing Bath.—Sun baths cost nothing, and are the most reft eshing,
life-giving baths that one can take, whether sick or well. Eead caiefully our
chapter on "Sunlight and Health."

To Prevent Harm from Drinking Cold Water.—It is a very safe rule to wet your
wrists before drinking cold water if at all heated. The effect is immediate and
grateful, and the danger of fatal results may be warded off by this simple
precaution.

How to Avoid Pneumonia.—Never allow yourself to be chilled " through and
through;" it is this which destroys so many every year, in a few days'
sickness, from pneumonia, called by some lung-fever, or inflammation of the
lungs.

Position After Being Tired.—If very tired physically, lie on the back, knees
drawn up, the hands clasped above the head, or resting on the elbows, the
fore-arm at right angles, and the hands hanging over by the bend of the wrists.

Opening Abscesses Under Water.—According to the Vienna correspondent of the
Chicago Medical Examiner, opening abscesses and buboes under water, and
applying plaster of Paris, is being tried there with satisfactory results.

Pie-crust and Dyspepsia.—Whoever eats heavy pie-crust commits a crime against
his physical well-being, and must pay the penalty. The good house-wife should
see to it that all pastry and cakes are light; no others should be eaten.

Little Things and Health.—The little causes must be looked for. There are the
little errors in diet, the little violations in our habits of exercise, study,
sleep, dress, etc., etc. The wise and prudent will carefully attend to the
little things.

Guarding against Diphtheria People cannot be too careful in regard

to diphtheria. No disease is so difficult to guard against after it has once
entered a household. But where people live comfortably and cleanly, slight
precautions are sufficient to keep it away entirely.

Dating at Certain Intervals.—After fifty years of age, if not a davlaborer, and
sedentary persons after forty, should eat but twice a day—in the morning and
about four in the afternoon; persons can soon accustom themselves to a seven
hours' interval between eating, thus giving the stomach rest, for every organ
without adequate rest will "give out" prematurely.

Time Required for Digesting Food.—The following is the time required to digest
certain articles of food: 1 pound of meat, 3 hours; cheese,

3 J hours; milk, 2 hours; eggs, 3 hours; veal, 4 hours; fowls, 4 hours; pork,

4 hours; tripe, 1 hour; bread, 3J hours; boiled potatoes, 3J hours, roasted, 2
hours; cabbage, 4J hours; beans, 2^ hours.

Cold or Warm Drinks.—Whoever drinks no liquors at all, will add years of
pleasurable existence to his life. Of cold or warm drinks, the former are the
most pernicious. Drinking at meals induces people to eat more than they oi
herwise would, as any one can verify by experiment, and it is excess in eating
that devastates the land with sickness, suffering, and death.

How to Remove Bitter Taste.—To swallow a pill, place it under the tip of the
tongue and take a drink of water. The largest will go down almost without
knowing it . The taste left in the mouth after taking such bitter medicines as
quinine, aloes, etc., is instantly neutralized by chewing a piece of liquorice
root.

Most Healthful Seat in a Car.—Other things being equal, the forward seats in a
street or railway car are the most healthful. The forward motion of the car
causes a current of air backward, carrying with it the exhalations from the
lungs of the forward passengers. In all cases avoid as much as possible
inhaling another's "breath."

Causes of Lung Congestion.—The causes that produce congestion of the lungs
are—cold feet, tight clothing, costive bowels, sitting still until chilled
after being warmed with labor or a rapid walk, going too suddenly from a close
room into the air, especially after speaking, too hasty walking, or running to
catch a train, etc.

Spread of Pestilence is possible through the rag-picker, who takes contagion to
the very door of the rich man. The breath of the wretched beggar, craving arms
of the lady at her carriage-step, may waft to her the seeds of death. The
little street-wanderer, in brushing past your child, may render vain the
anxious care of years. The highly-recommended nurse-maid may carry the infant
into scenes and atmospheres the most dangerous.

Sewing-Machines and Health.—Dr. Decaisne (X' Union Medicale) states, after a
careful investigation of the cases of six hundred and sixty-one female
operatives upon the sewing-machine, that they were not more subject than other
working-women to disease, and that certain other cases which had been reported
were evidently simple coincidences, and the results of labor too severe for the
women's strength.

A Specific for Scrofula.—Cranberry wine, taken internally and applied
externally, is announced as a cure for scrofula. To make the wine, take the
ripe berries, mash them in a mortar to a fine pulp, put into a stone jar, add
one quart of water to two quarts of berries, stir it well, set away and let it
stand a week; then strain it through cotton, and you have a beautiful wine,
which, with a little sugar, makes at once a cooling and palatable drink. It
does not ferment.

Important Suggestion to Parents about Sitting.—A very common position in
sitting, especially among men, is with the shoulders against the chair-back,
with a space of several inches between the chair-back and the lower portion of
the spine, giving the body the shape of a half hoop; it is the instantaneous,
instinctive, and almost universal position assumed by any consumptive on
sitting down, unless counteracted by an effort of the will;

hence parents should regard such a position in their children with
apprehension, and should rectify it at once.

Improper Sitting and its Evils.—Consumptive people, and all afflicted with
spinal deformities, sit habitually crooked, in one or more curves of the body.
There was a time in all these when the body had its natural erectness, when
there was not the first departure on the road to death. The make of our chairs,
especially that great barbarism the unwieldy and disease-engendering
rocking-chair, favors these diseases, and undoubtedly, in some instances, leads
to bodily habits from which originate the ailments just named, to say nothing
of piles, fistula, and the like. The painful or sore feeling which many are
troubled with incessantly for years at the extremity of the backbone, is the
result of sitting in such a position that it rests upon the seat of the chair t
& a point several inches forward of the chair-back.

Chewing Between Meals.—The habit of chewing substances of any kind between
meals is always harmful to health. The chewing over-taxes the organs which
secrete the saliva, and exhaust them so that the chief agent in promoting the
digestion of food is diminished in quantity and efficiency. The act of chewing
always excites the flow of saliva. Persons who chew gum soon become sensible of
the exhaustion and fatigue of the salivary glands. The same is true of those
who chew tobacco. In order to the best condition of these glands they should
rest "between meals."

Remedy for Feverishness.—When persons are feverish and thirsty beyond what is
natural, indicated in some cases by a metallic taste in the mouth, one of the
best "coolers" is to take a lemon, cut off the top, sprinkle over it some
loaf-sugar, working it down into the lemon with a spoon, and then suck it
slowly. Invalids with feverishness may take two or three lemons a day in this
manner with most marked benefit, manifested by a sense of coolness, comfort,
and invigoration. A lemon or two thus taken at "tea-time" is for some an
excellent substitute for the ordinary supper in summer.

Cause and Cure of Leanness.—Leanness may be caused by insufficient food, or
over-exertion, or both. But the usual cause is disease; the vital powers being
more occupied in removing impurities and poisons, and overcoming abnormal
conditions, than in digesting and assimilating nutrient material. The patient
should eat all the plain nutritious food that he can assimilate. Those lean
persons who are not accustomed to fruit will find baked sweet apples a good
addition to each meal to begin with. Oat-meal mush, with a slice of wheat-meal
bread, and two or three baked apples, make a breakfast with which any lean
individual may be justly content.

Cure of Obesity.—The diet advised for fat persons, by the best authorities,
consists of food containing a large percentage of nitrogen, to which some
vegetables without starch, ami cooked fruit are to be added, for the purpose of
moderating the excitation due to animal nourishment. Beer is forbidden. Use
very little sugar. Cheese, potatoes, rice, beans, peas, maize, macaroni,
tapioca, arrowroot, and soups are not allowed. The use of sulphate of soda is
recommended, as moderating the transformation of nitrogenous materials and
stimulating the oxidation of fat; and the use of mineral waters containing the
sulphate of soda in solution is considered of the greatest importance in this
respect. The waters of Marienbad,* which are especially rich in this salt, are
stated to have, usually, the most happy effect. Their use, together with that
of some alkaline pills, and a strict adherence to the conditions above
mentioned, caused a decrease in weight of from twenty-five to sixty pounds in
different individuals in the course of a few weeks.

Chief Causes of Sudden Death.—Very few of the sudden deaths which are said to
arise from diseases of the heart do really arise from that cause. To ascertain
the real origin of sudden deaths, an experiment was tried and reported to a
Scientific Congress at Strasburg. Sixty-six cases of sudden death were made the
subject of a thorough post-mortem examination; in these cases only two were
found who died from disease of the heart. Nine out of sixty-six had died from
apoplexy, while there were forty-six cases of congestion of the lungs—that is,
the lungs were so full of blood they could not work, there not being room
enough for a sufficient quantity of air to enter to support life.

Medical Qualities of Pumpkins.—A prominent physician of New York city, speaking
of the properties of pumpkins, says that in his travels in Syria he found
pumpkin-seeds almost universally eaten by the people on account of their
supposed medical qualities. Not because they are diuretic, but as an antidote
against animalcula? which infest the bowels. They are sold in the streets as
apples and nuts are here.

It is a medical fact that persons can be cured of tape-worm by the use of
pumpkin-seeds. The outer skin being removed, the seeds are bruised in a mortar
into an oily, pasty mass. It is swallowed by the patient after fasting some
hours, and it takes the place of chyle in the stomach, and the tapeworm lets go
its hold on the membrane and becomes gorged with this substance, and in some
measure, probably, torpid. Then a large dose of castoroil is administered, and
the worms are ejected before they are enabled to renew their hold.

To Keep White Hands.—Our readers need not suffer from having their hands
affected by water or soapsuds if the hands are dipped in vinegar-water or
lemon-juice immediately after. The acid destroys the corrosive effect of the
alkali, and makes the hands soft and white.

A Good Tooth-wash.—Dissolve two ounces of borax in three pints of

* Mr. Behind, in Harpers' Weekly.

boiling water, and before it is cold add one or two teaspoonfuls of spirits of
camphor, and bottle for use. A tablespoonful mixed with an equal quantity of
tepid water, and applied daily with a soft brush, purifies and beautifies the
teeth, tends to prevent the formation of tartar, and induces a healthy action
of the gums.

To Remove Moth from the Face.—The principal causes of moth spots are
biliousness, and a torpid liver. A distinguished and successful physician
prescribes this remedy: "Put ten drops of elixir of vitriol into half a tumbler
of water, and drink the whole dilution twice daily."

Pimples on the Face.—Pimples about the face are extremely common and very
annoying. Dr. Dio Lewis writes: "The number of persons who have written me
about this difficulty must be thousands. In the absence of any definite
information about the particular condition of the general health, I have always
to say that the only remedy is to be sought in the improvement in the
systematic tone. Eating in moderate quantities nourishing and simple food,
keeping the bowels regular, exercising and sleeping wisely; in brief, observing
the laws of health, elevating and purifying the system, is the only cure. The
skin must be thoroughly bathed with soap and water every night on going to bed,
or every morning, as may be more convenient."

To Strengthen the Hair.—Dilute an ounce of borax and an ounce of camphor in two
quarts of water, and wash the hair thoroughly twice a week, clipping the ends
off occasionally. It will quickly grow long, thick, and even.

To Cool a Room.—Wet a cloth of any size, the larger the better, and suspend it
in the room. Let the ventilation be good, and the temperature will sink from
ten to twenty degrees in less than an hour.

Protection from Damp Walls.—Boil one pound of powdered sulphur in two quarts of
water for half an hour. Apply with a brush while still warm, and you will
prevent the damp and unwholesome oozings from the brick walls of your
workshops.

To Make a Good Court-Plaster.—Balsam of benzoin one part, alcohol twelve parts,
mix—then isinglass two parts, and water barely sufficient to dissolve. Strain
the two solutions separately, then mix them. For use, place the bottle in warm
water, and give the silk, previously strained on rollers, ten or twelve coats
with a brush; when dry, give it a coat of the following: Ohio turpentine one
part, tincture of benzoin two parts.

To Relieve Whooping-Cough.—Dr. Snow has suggested the use of carbolate of lime.
It has apparently produced a marked effect in diminishing the frequency and
severity of the paroxysms of coughing. Small quantities of the carbolate of
lime are placed in saucers in the room where the child sleeps; merely
sufficient to make the odor perceptible. The odor is like coal tar, and if not
too strong is not unpleasant. The carbolate of lime is about the same price as
chloride of lime, and for all disinfecting purposes is far more valuable than
the chloride of lime.

Diphtheria—Its Symptoms.—Diphtheria is a kind of sore throat in which matter
exudes from the mucous membrane. This stiffens into a peculiar white substance,
patches of which may be seen in the back part of the mouth. Fever and debility
accompany the disease, which is so sudden and insidious in its advances as to
be exceedingly dreaded.

Cause of Diphtheria.—Recents reports go to show that the principal causes of
this ailment are polluted wells, foul and wet cellars, or no cellar at all; and
bad sewage, and cold, wet lands seem to afford the most favorable conditions
for its existence. A preceding summer's drought, with ensuing low water in the
wells and springs, have been noticed in connection with epidemic prevalence. In
one family, two fatal cases originated during extreme lowness of the water in
the well, and while the water looked milky, and was refused by the cow, that
would suffer thirst for days before she would drink it.

Treatments of Diphtheria.—1. The neck should be wrapped in a wet bandage and
covered with red flannel or a woolen stocking. Gargle the throat with a
solution of a teaspoonful of salt in a pint of water, or thirty grains of
chlorate of potash in a wine-glass of water.

2. Treatment consists in thoroughly swabbing the back of the throat with a wash
made thus: "Table salt, two drachms; black pepper, golden seal, nitrate of
potash, alum, one dram each. Mix and pulverize, put into a tea-cup, which half
fill with boiling water, stir well, and then fill up with good vinegar. Use
every half hour, one, two, and four hours, as recovery progresses. The patient
may swallow a little each time. Apply an ounce each of spirits turpentine,
sweet oil, and aqua ammonia, mixed, to the whole of the throat and to the
breast bone every four hours, keeping flannel to the parts.

3. A simple and successful treatment of diphtheria may be found in the use of
lemon juice. Gargle the throat freely with it, at the same time swallowing a
portion, so as to reach all the affected parts. A French physician claims t^at
he saved his own life with this pleasant remedy.

4. It is said that diphtheria maybe speedily arrested, and sometimes cured, by
swallowing lumps of ice, continuously, until relief is afforded; let them, as
much as possible, melt in the throat. Common sore throat is cured in the Bame
way sometimes.

5. A treatment which has the advantage of being short, if nothing else,
consists in simply using a gargle of phenic acid and distilled water, with
external applications of new flannel; the food and drink to be taken cold.

Infection Carried by Pet Animals.—Hair and fur absorb and retain in a
remarkable degree odors, gases, and minute substances discharged into, and
transmitted by, the air. Attention has recently been called to a number of
cases where scarlet fever has been proved to be conveyed, even after quite a
time, from one person to another by pet dogs and cats.

Flies as Poison Carriers Similar carriers of contagious material are

flies, which with great indifference for the most odious substances, pass
quickly from one surface to another, and from any diseased or foul matter to
material used for food or drink. They may thus convey, by means of their feet
and probosces, one substance to another, and it is, therefore, considered
highly probable that the communication of contagious or septic poisons by their
agency, is not by any means rare.

To Prevent After-taste of Quinine.—The mastication of some acid fruit, as an
apple or a pear, will permanently remove the disagreeable aftertaste of
quinine. The first mouthful of food should be well masticated and rolled
through the mouth, so as to cleanse the teeth, etc., and then ejected. The
second morsel may be swallowed, when it will be discovered that all taste of
the quinine will be removed.

Inflation of the Lungs.—Five minutes spent in the open air, after dressing,
inflating the lungs by inhaling as full a breath as possible, and gently
pounding the breast during the inflation, will greatly enlarge the chest,
strengthen the lung power, and very effectually ward off consumption.*

Diet for Dyspeptics.—If inclined to be dyspeptic, avoid mince pie, sausage, and
other highly-seasoned food. Beware of eating too freely of soup; better to eat
food dry enough to employ the natural saliva of the mouth in moistening it. If
inclined to over-eat, partake freely of rice, cracked wheat, and other articles
that are easily digested. Eat freely of ripe fruit, and avoid excessive use of
meats. Eat at regular hours, and lightly near the hour of going to bed. Eat
slowly. Thoroughly masticate the food. Do not wash it down with continual drink
while eating.

• The Inhalation Tube furnished by Dr. Howe, of Passaic, N. J., is a most
effective help in the correction of improper breathing.

HOME ECONOMICS.

WASTE IN THE KITCHEN.

Waste in the kitchen is often very great from apparently trivial sources,
Housekeepers should read and ponder:—

In cooking meats, the water is thrown out without removing the grease, or the
grease from the dripping-pan is thrown away.

Pieces of bread in the bread-box, and cake in the cake-box, are left to dry and
mold.

Scraps of meat are thrown away.

Cold potatoes are left to sour and spoil.

Preserves are opened, forgotten, and left to mold and ferment.

Dried fruits are not looked after, and become wormy.

Vinegar and sauce are left standing in tin.

Apples are left to decay for want of "sorting over."

Corks are left out of the molasses and vinegar jugs.

The tea-canister is left open.

Victuals are left exposed to be eaten by mice.

Bones of meat and the carcass of turkey are thrown away, when they could be
used in making good soups.

Vegetables and puddings left from the dinner are thrown away.
Sugar, tea, coffee, and rice are carelessly spilled in the handling.
Soap is left to dissolve and waste in the water.
Dish-towels are used for dish-cloths.
Napkins are used for dish-towels.
Towels are used for holders.
Brooms and mops are not hung up.
Coal is wasted by not sifting the ashes.

More coal is burned than necessary, by not arranging dampers when not using the
fire.

Lights are left burning when not used.

Tin dishes are not properly cleansed and dried.

Knives and forks get rusty, for want of care.

Nice ones are spoiled by use in the kitchen.

Pails and wash-tubs fall to pieces, because left dry.

Potatoes in the cellar grow, and thus becSme unfit for eating.

Ashes are thrown out and wasted, when they could be utilized in different ways.

Carpets are swept with stub brooms which wear out the carpet texture.

Good new brooms are used in scrubbing the kitchen-floors.

Sheets are scorched and injured by being used in ironing.

Silver spoons are used in scraping kettles.

Good forks are used and ruined in toasting bread.

The flour is sifted in a wasteful manner, or the bread-pan left with dough
sticking to it.

Pie-crust ia left and laid by to sour, instead of making a few tarts for tea,
etc.

Cold puddings are considered good for nothing, when often they can be steamed
for the next day, or, in case of rice, made over in other forms. Vegetables are
thrown away that would warm for breakfast nicely. Cream is left to mould and
spoil. Mustard is left to spoil in the cruse, or rust, etc.

Vinegar is allowed to stand until the tin vessel becomes corroded and spoiled.

Pickles become spoiled by the leaking out or evaporation of the vinegar.

Pork spoils for want of salt, and beef because the brine wants scalding.

Hams become tainted, or filled with vermin, for the want of care.

Cheese molds, and is eaten by mice or vermin.

Lard is not well tried in the fall, and becomes tainted.

Tea and coffee-pots are injured on the stove.

Soap-suds are thrown away instead of being used as a valuable addition to the
soil in the garden.

Potatoes are "peeled " before boiling, thus losing a large fraction of the
substance. It is much more economical to boil before the rind is removed; then
only the thin rind is lost.

Wooden-ware is unscalded, and1 left to warp and crack.

N. B.—The above list is partial. It could easily be extended.

KITCHEN FURNITURE-CLEANING.

Heating New Iron.—New iron should be very gradually heated at first. After it
has become inured to the heat, it is not so likely to crack.

To Prevent Crust in Tea-kettles.—Keep an oyster-shell in your teakettle. By
attracting the stony particles to itself, it will prevent the formation of a
crust.

To Clean Tea-kettles.—Kerosene will make your tea-kettle as bright as new.
Saturate a woolen rag and rub with it. It will also remove stains from clean
varnished furniture.

Glass should be washed in cold water, which gives it a brighter and clearer
look than when cleansed with warm water.

Glass Vessels, and other utensils, may be purified and cleaned by rinsing them
out with powdered charcoal.

To Clean Coal-oil Cans.—After cleansing them as much as possible with wood
ashes and hot water, use nitric-acid in moderate quantities, which will soon
remove the difficulty.

Washing Knives and Forks.—Do not let knives be dropped into hot dish-water.
Iteis a good plan to have a large tin pot to wash them in, just high enough to
wash the blades without wetting the handles.

To Clean Knives.—Cut a small potato in two; dip one half in the brickdust, and
rub the knives, and rust and stain will disappear like magic from their
surfaces.

Scouring Knives.—Place a quantity of brick-dust on a board, and having the
knife perfectly dry, press it down hard and rub it back and forth erottwise of
the blade. When bright, turn and scour the other side. Then wipe off with
chamois leather. Knives thus treated will retain their brightness much longer,
and have a new look after years of usage.

To Extract Stains from Silver.—Sal ammoniac, one part; vinegar, sixteen parts.
Mix and use this liquid with a piece of flannel, then wash the plate in clean
water.

Silver Soap.—For cleaning silver and Britannia: One half pound of soap; three
tablespoonfuls of spirits of turpentine, and half a tumbler of water. Let it
boil ten minutes; add six tablespoonfuls of spirits of hartshorn. Make a suds
of this, and wash silver with it.

To Clean Silver.—Cleansing silver is not an easy task; the use of kerosene will
greatly facilitate the operation. Wet a flannel cloth in the oil, dip in dry
whiting, and thoroughly rub the plated or silverware; throw it into a dish of
scalding soapsuds, wipe with a soft flannel, and polish with a chamois skin.

Another Method of Cleaning Silver.—Silver door-plates are most expeditiously
cleaned with a weak solution of ammonia and water; say one teaspoonful of
ammonia to a tea-cup of water, applied with a wet rag. It is equally useful in
cleaning other silver-plate and gold jewelry.

Cleaning Tinware.—An experienced housekeeper says the best thing for cleaning
tinware is common soda. She gives the following directions: Dampen a cloth, and
dip in soda, and rub the ware briskly, after which wipe dry. Any blackened ware
can be made to look as well as new.

To Clean Tin Covers.—Get the finest whiting; mix a little of it powdered with
the least drop of sweet oil, rub the covers well with it, and wipe them clean;
then dust over them some dry whiting in a muslin bag, and rub bright with dry
leather. This last is to prevent rust, which the cook must guard against by
wiping them dry, and putting them by the fire when they come from the
dining-room, for if but once hung up damp the inside will rust .

To Polish Tins First rub tbem with a damp cloth; then take dry flour

and rub it on with the hands; afterward take an old newspaper and rub tha flour
off, and the tins will shine as well as if half an hour had been spent rubbing
them with brick-dust or powder, which spoils the hands.*

Papier-Mache Articles should be washed with a sponge and c«ld water, without
soap, dredged with flour while damp, and polished with a flannel.

Japanned Ware Wet a sponge in warm water, and dampen it over;

then wipe off with a soft cloth. If a tray becomes spotted, take a bit of
woolen cloth and dip into a little sweet oil, and rub it as hard as possible,
and the marks, if effaceable, will disappear.

Cleaning Floor-boards.—Scrubbing them with a mixture made by dissolving
unslaked lime in boiling water, will have the desired effect. The proportions
are, two tablespoonfuls to a quart of water. No soap need be used.

Another Method.—Lime, one part; sand, three parts; soft soap, two parts. Lay a
little on the boards with a scrubbing-brush, and rub thoroughly. Rinse with
clean water, and rub dry. This will keep the boards of a good color, and will
also keep away vermin.

To Clean Painted Wainscot, or Other Wood-work.—Fuller's earth will be found
cheap and useful; and on wood not painted, it forms an excellent substitute for
soap.

Cleaning Old Brass.—The best liquid for cleaning old brass is a solution of
oxalic acid.

To Clean a Brass Kettle.—Do this before using it for cooking; use salt and
vinegar.

To Clean Brasses, Britannia Metals, Tins, Coppers, Etc.—These are cleaned with
a mixture of rotten-stone, soft-soap, and oil of turpentine, mixed to the
consistency of stiff putty. The stone should be powdered very fine and sifted;
and a quantity of the mixture may be made sufficient to last for a long while.
The articles should first be washed with hot water, to remove grease. Then a
little of the above mixture, mixed with water, should be rubbed over the metal;
then rub off briskly, with dry, clean rag, or leather, and a beautiful polish
will be obtained.

To Keep Iron from Rusting.—Kerosene applied by means of a moistened cloth to
stoves, will effectually keep them from rusting during the summer. It is also
an excellent material to apply to all iron utensils used about the farm. Give
plows, cultivators, and the like, a coating before they are put away in the
fall.

Paper for Cleaning Stoves, Tinware, Furniture, Etc.—After a stove has been
blackened, it can be kept looking very well for a long time by rubbing it with
paper every morning. Rubbing with paper is a much nicer way of keeping the
outside of a tea-kettle, coffee-pot, and tea-pot, bright and clean, than the
old way of washing them with suds. Rubbing with paper is also the best way of
polishing knives, tinware, and spoons; they shine like new silver. R>r
polishing mirrors, windows, lamp-chimneys, etc., paper is better than a dry
cloth.

Cleansing Bottles.—Many persons clean bottles by putting in some small shot,
and shaking them around. Water dissolves lead to a certain extent, and a film
of this lead attaches itself to the sides of the bottle so closely that the
shaking or rinsing with water does not detach it, and it remains to be
dissolved by any liquid which has the least sourness in it, and if drank, lead
poison may be the result. Sometimes a shot becomes wedged in at the bottom of a
bottle, to be dissolved by wine or cider. Therefore, it is better to wash every
bottle as soon as emptied with warm water and wood ashes, or saleratus, and put
the bottle away, mouth open and downward; but be careful to wash again when
used, as flics and other insects frequently get into open bottles. Or, chop up
a large potato very fine, and put it into the bottle with some warm water, and
shake it rapidly until it is clean.

SOAPS AND WASHING FLUIDS.

Hard Soap.—Five pails soft soap, two pounds salt, and one pound resin. Simmer
together, and when thoroughly fused, turn out in shallow pans so as to be
easily cut.

Soft Soap.—Boil twenty-five pounds of fried grease in two pails of strong lye.
Next day add another pailful of hot lye; also on the following day, if there is
grease on the top of the soap. Afterward add a pailful of hot water each day
until the barrel is filled.

Excellent Soft Soap.—Take 16 quarts of lye of sufficient strength to float an
egg; 8 pounds of clean grease; 1£ pounds resin; put the whole into' a five-pail
kettle and boil it. At first it is apt to rise, in which case add a little
strong lye, and so continue to do until the materials are incorporated. Then
remove it from the fire, and add, by degrees, weak lye, stirring it at every
addition, till the kettle is full.

Common Hard Soap.—Put in an iron kettle five pounds unslaked lime, five pounds
soda, and three gallons soft water; let it soak over night; in the

morning pour off the water, then add three and a half pounds of grease, boil
till thick, turn into a pan until cool, and then cut in bars.

Labor-Saving Soap.—Take two pounds sal-soda, two pounds yellow barsoap, and ten
quarts of water; cut the soap into thin slices, and boil together two hours;
strain, and it will be fit for use. Put the clothes to soak the night before
you wash, and to every pail of water in which you boil them add a pound of
soap. They will need no rubbing; merely rinse them out, and they will be
perfectly white and clean.

Honey Soap.—Cut thin two pounds of yellow soap into a double saucepan,
occasionally stirring it till it is melted, which will be in a few minutes, if
the water is kept boiling around it; then add a quarter of a pound of palmoil,
quarter of a pound of honey, ten cents' worth of true oil of cinnamon; let all
boil together another six or eight minutes; pour out and stand it by till next
day, it is then fit for immediate use.

Using Soap.'—Hard soap is fittest for washing clothes, and soft soap for
floors. It is a good plan to soap your dirtiest clothes, and soak them over
night in soft water. If you are at a loss to procure soft water for washing,
fill a barrel half full of wood ashes, and fill it up with water, and you will
have a lye whenever you want it. A gallon of strong lye put into a great boiler
of hard water, will make it quite soft. Some use pearl-ash, or pot-ash; but
either injures the texture of the cloth.

Suggestions.—A tablespoonful of turpentine boiled with white clothes, will
greatly aid the whitening process.

Boiling starch is much improved by the addition of sperm, or salt, or both, or
a little gum-arabic, dissolved.

Washing Fluid.—Five pounds of sal-soda, one pound of borax, one-half pound of
fresh unslaked lime, four ounces of liquid ammonia. Pour one gallon of boiling
water upon the soda and borax; when it has dissolved and has cooled, add the
ammonia. Slake the lime in one gallon of hot water, and let it stand until
entirely settled, when the clear fluid must be carefully poured off. Turn it
upon the solution of soda and borax, and add to the mixture eight gallons of
cold water. Put the clothes to soak the night before washing-day, with six
tablespoonfuls of this fluid to a tub full of clothes.

To Make Hard Water Soft Dissolve one pound of white rock potash in one gallon
of water, and then use half a gill of the preparation to a tub of water.

To Clear Muddy Water.—A little dissolved alum is very effective in clearing
muddy water. If thrown mto a tub of soap-suds, the soap, curdled and
accompanied by the muddy particles, sinks to the bottom, leaving the water
above clear and pure. In times of scarcity of water this may be used again for
washing clothes.

WASHING CLOTHES.

To Clean a White Lace Veil.—Put the veil into a strong lather of white soap and
very clear water, and let it simmer slowly for a quarter of an hour. Take it
out and squeeze it well, but be sure not to rub it. Rinse it in two cold
waters, with a drop or two of liquid blue in the last. Have ready some very
clear gum-arabic water, or some thin starch, or rice water. Pass the veil
through it, and clear it by clapping. Then stretch it out even, and pin it to
dry on a linen cloth, making the edge as straight as possible, opening out all
the scallops, and fastening each with pins. When dry, lay a piece of thin
muslin smoothly over it, and iron it on the wrong side.

To Wash Fine, Colored Fabrics.—To wash colored stockings, or any delicate
colored fabrics, table-linen, lawns, or cambrics, etc., dissolve one
tablespoonful of sugar of lead in one gallon water. Soak the articles
thoroughly in the solution; then dry.

To Wash Merino Stockings.—Boil the soap to make a lather, wash them in this
warm, and rinse in a second lather. If white, mix a little blue. Never rinse in
plain water, or use cold water.

To Make the Colors stand in Delicate Hose.—Turn the stockings right side out,
and wash in a lather of lukewarm water and white castile soap; then wash the
wrong side. If very much soiled, two waters will be required. Rinse in lukewarm
water and then in cold water; dry as soon as possible by heat, not by sun. It
is better not to iron them, but when nearly dry, smooth and pull them into
shape by hand.

To Wash Chintz.—Boil two pounds of rice in two gallons of water till soft, and
pour it into a tub; let it stand until it subsides into a moderate warmth; put
the chintz in and wash it (without using soap) until the dirt disappears; then
boil the same quantity of water and rice as before, but strain off the rice and
mix it in warm water. Wash the chintz in this till quite clean; afterward rinse
it in the water the rice was boiled in; this will answer for starch, and dew
will not affect it.

Washing Prints.—To a sufficient quantity of hot water for washing a dress add a
tablespoonful of ox gall. Let the dress remain in this a few minutes, then cool
enough to wash out like other prints. Rinse immediately in cold water and dry
as quickly as possible in the open air. If there are spots to be removed, apply
soap when dry.

Another.—Dissolve half an ounce of alum in sufficient water to rinse two print
dresses. Dip your prints in, and when sure that every part is wet, wring them
out; then have a warm soapsuds, in which wash quickly and rinse in cold water.
Then in second rinsing-water mix your starch, rinse, wring quickly, and hang to
dry, not in the Bun, but on a line where the wind will dry them quickly.
Immediately they are dry enough, iron them; or if this is not convenient, let
them get quite dry and iron them through a damp cloth. Prints should never be
sprinkled.

To Make Use of Faded Prints.—Dingy print dresses can be bleached and made into
something serviceable and pretty. When the season of soap-making approaches,
have faded dresses ready to scald in lye. Let them be washed and boiled in hot
suds until all the color possible is extracted, then finish the work by
scalding with lye, washing with suds, and laying them on the first young grass.

Cleansing Blankets.—Put two large tablespoonfuls of borax and a pint of soft
soap into a tub of cold water. When dissolved, put in a pair of blankets, and
let them remain over night. Next day, rub and drain them out, and rinse
thoroughly in two waters, and hang to dry. Do not wring them.

To Wash Flannel.—Never rub soap upon it. Make a suds by dissolving the soap in
warm water. Rinse in warm water; very cold or hot water will shrink flannel.
Shake them out several minutes before hanging to dry. Blankets are washed in
the same way.

Restoring White Flannel.—To restore the appearance of white flannel which has
turned yellowish by lying for a long time or by wear, soak for one hour in a
weak solution of bisulphate of soda, then add a little diluted muriatic acid,
stir well, and cover the vessel for twenty minutes. After this take the flannel
out, rinse in plenty of soft water, and dry in the sun.

Washing Woolen Clothing.—Articles of woolen washed in ordinary soap and water
not only shrink, but acquire a peculiar fatty odor, due to the decomposition of
the soap by the lactic and acetic acids present in the perspiration, and
consequently precipitation of the greater part of the fat of the soap in the
fiber of the wool. To prevent these effects steep the articles for several
hours in a warm, moderately-concentrated solution of washing soda, then after
the addition of warm water and a few drops of ammonia, wash and rinse them in
lukewarm water.

How to Wash Table-Linen.—Put a teaspoonful of sugar of lead into two-thirds of
a pail of water, and when dissolved, soak the table-linen in it fifteen or
twenty minutes. Be careful iu wringing the article from this water that there
is no cut or sore on the hands, as the sugar of lead is poisonous. Every thing
that is liable to fade must be washed quickly, and not allowed to soak in suds
or rinsing-water, and hung in a shady place to dry. Never wash flannel, silk,
or colored things on a wet or cloudy day, but lay them aside for a fair day;
and when washing such articles do not let them stand and soak, but wash, rinse,
starch (if needed) and hang out each thing as fast as possible, and then take
the next.

To Preserve Clothes-Pins.—Clothes-pins, boiled a few moments, and quickly
dried, onee or twice a month, become more flexible and durable. Clothes-lines
will last longer and keep in better order if occasionally treated in the same
way.

STARCHING, FOLDING, AND IRONING.

To Prepare Starch.—Take two tablespoonfuls of starch dissolved in at much
water; add a gill of cold water; then add one pint of boiling water, and boil
it half an hour, adding a small piece of spermaceti, sugar, or salt; strain,
etc. Thin it with water.

Flour Starch.—Mix flour gradually with cold water, so that it may bo free from
lumps. Stir in cold water till it will pour easily; then stir it into a pot of
boiling water, and let it boil five or six minutes, stirring it frequently. A
little spermaceti will make it smoother. This starch will answer very well for
cotton and linen. Poland starch is made in the same manner.

Glue Starch.—Boil a piece of glue, four inches square, in three quarts of
water. Keep it in a bottle well corked. Use for calicoes.

'Gum-arabic Starch.—Get two ounces of fine, white gum-arabic; pound it to
powder; put it into a pitcher, and pour a pint or more of boiling water upon
it; cover it well. Let it stand all night, and the next morning pour it
carefully from the dregs into a clean bottle; cork it, and keep for use. A
tablespoonful stirred into a pint of starch made in the ordinary manner will
restore lawns to almost their original freshness; and it is also good for thin
white muslin and bobbinet.

Starching Clothes.—Muslins look well when starched, and clapped dry, while the
starch is hot, then folded in a damp cloth, till they become quite damp, before
ironing them. If muslins are sprinkled, they are apt to be spotted. Some clap
muslins, then dry them, and afterward sprinkle them.

Sprinkling Clothes.—They should be sprinkled with clear water and laid in
separate piles; one of flannels, one of colored, one of common, and one of fine
articles.

Folding Clothes.—Fold the fine articles, and roll them in a towel; thee fold
the rest, turning them all right side outward. Lay the colored articles
separate from the rest. They should not remain damp long, as the colors might
be injured. Sheets and table linen should be shaken and folded.

Gloss for Linen.—" Starch Luster" is a substance used for washing purposes,
which, when added to starch, causes the linen to which it is applied to assume
not only a high polish, but a dazzling whiteness. A portion, of the size of a
copper cent, added to half a pound of starch, and boiled with it for two or
three minute?, will produce the best results. This substance is nothing more
than stearine, paraffine, or wax, colored by a slight admixture of ultramarine
blue. The latter may be added at will.

To Make Flat-irons Smooth.—Rub them with clean lard, and wipe dry; or rubbing
them with a little beeswax while hot will have the desired effect .

Another. — Rub them with fine salt, and it will make them perfectly smooth.

To Preserve Irons from Rust.—Melt fresh mutton suet, smear oyer the irons with
it while hot, then dust it well with unslaked lime, powdered and tied up in
muslin. When not used, wrap the irons in baize, and keep them in a dry place.
Use no oil on them at any time except salad oil.

To Remove Starch or Rust from Flat-irons.—Have a piece of yellow beeswax tied
in a coarse cloth. When the iron is almost hot enough to use, but not quite,
rub it quickly with the beeswax, and then with a clean, coarse cloth. This will
remove it entirely.

Ironing.—In ironing a shirt, first do the back, then the sleeves, then the
collar and bosom, and then the front. Calicoes should be ironed on the right
side, as they thus keep clean for a longer time. In ironing a frock, first do
the waist, then the sleeves, then the skirt. Keep the skirt rolled while
ironing the other parts, and set a chair to hold the sleeves while ironing the
skirt, unless a skirt-board be used. Silk should be ironed on the wrong side,
when quite damp, with an iron which is not very hot, as light colors are apt to
change and fade. In ironing velvet, turn up the face of the iron, and after
dampening the wrong side of the velvet, draw it over the face of the iron,
holding it straight. Always iron lace and needlework on the wrong side.

Starching—Clear-starching, Etc. — To Make Starch for Linen, Cotton, Etc.—To one
ounce of the best starch add just enough soft cold water to make it, by rubbing
and stirring, into a thick paste, carefully breaking all the lumps and
particles. When rubbed perfectly smooth, add a pint of boiling water, with
blueing to suit, and boil for at least half an Ao»*r, taking care to have it
well stirred all the time, to prevent its burning. When not stirring, keep it
covered, to prevent the accumulation of dust, etc. Also keep it covered when
removed from the fire, to prevent a scum from rising upon it. To give the linen
a fine, smooth, glossy appearance, and prevent the iron from sticking, add a
little spermaceti—a piece as large as a nutmeg—to the starch when boiling, and
half a teaspoonful of the finest table-salt. In ironing linen collars, shirt
bosoms, etc., their appearance will be much improved by rubbing them, before
ironing, with a clean white towel, dampened in soft water. All starch should be
strained before using.

To Clear-starch Lace, Etc.—Starch for laces should be thicker and used hotter
than for linens. After your laces have been well washed and dried,

dip them into the thick, hot starch in such a way as to have every part
properly starched. Then wring all the starch out, and spread them out smooth on
a piece of linen; roll them up together, and let them remain for about half an
hour, when they will be dry enough to iron. Some think that laces should never
be clapped between the hand, as it injures them. Cambrics do not require so
thick starch as net or lace. Some people prefer cold or raw starch for
book-muslin, as some of this kind of muslin has a thick clammy appearnnce, if
starched in boiled staroh. Fine laces are sometimes wound round a glass bottle
to dry, which prevents them from shrinking.

Ironing Laces.—Ordinary laces and worked muslin can be ironed by the usual
process with a smoothing or sad-iron; finer laces cannot be. When the lace has
been starched and dried, ready for ironing, spread it out as smooth as •
possible on an ironing-cloth, and pass over it, back and forth, as quickly as
you can, a smooth, round glass bottle containing hot water, giving the bottle
such pressure as may be required to smooth the lace. Sometimes you may pass the
laces over the bottle, taking care to keep them smooth. Either way is much
better than to iron.

REMOVING STAINS.

Grease-spots. — Cold rain-water and soap will remove machine-grease from
washable fabrics.

Stains from Acids can be removed by spirits of hartshorn, diluted. Repeat, if
necessary.

Wine Stains may be taken out of articles by holding the spots in milk while it
is boiling.

Sal-volatile, or hartshorn, will restore colors taken out by acid. It may be
dropped upon any garment without doing harm.

Iron Rust.—Dip the rusty spots in a solution of tartaric or citrio acid; or wet
the spots with lemon-juice, and rub on hard, white soap, expose it to the heat;
or apply lemon-juice and salt, and expose it to the sun.

To Take Out Scorch.—Lay the article scorched where the bright sunshine will
fall upon it. It is said it will remove the spot, and leave it white as snow.

Mildewed Linen.—This may be restored by soaping the spots; while wet, covering
them with fine chalk scraped to powder, and well rubbed in.

To Remove Mildew.—Remove mildew by dipping in sour butter-milk and laying in
the sun.

Another Method of Removing Mildew.—Pour one quart of boiling water on two
ounces of chloride of lime, and strain through a cloth; then acid three quarts
of cold water. Let the articles stand in this twelve hours, then rinse
thoroughly. It will not injure the cloth.

Coffee Stains.—Pour on them a small stream of boiling water before putting the
article in the wash.

Grass Stains.—Wash the stained places in clean, cold, soft water, without soap,
before the garment is otherwise wet.

Tea Stains.—Clear, boiling water will remove tea stains, and many fruit stains.
Pour the water through the stain, and thus prevent its spreading over the
fabric.

Medicine Stains.—These may be removed from silver spoons by rubbing them with a
rag dipped in sulphuric acid, and washing it off with soapsuds.

Fruit Stains.— Freezing will take out all old fruit stains, and scalding with
boiling water will remove those that have never been through the wash.

Fruit Stains on Napkins, Table-cloths, etc. — Pour hot water on the spots; wet
with hartshorn or oxalic acid—a teaspoonful to a teacup of water.

For Fruit and Wine Stains, mix two teaspoonfuls of water and one of spirit of
salt, and let the stained part lie in this for two minutes; then rinse in cold
water; or wet the stain with hartshorn.

Ink Stains.—Ink stains may sometimes be taken out by smearing with hot tallow,
left on when the stained articles go to the wash.

How to take Marking-Ink out of Linen.— A saturated solution of cyanuret of
potassium, applied with a camel's-hair brush. After the markingink disappears,
the linen should be well-washed in cold water.

Ink in Cotton, Silk, and Woolen Goods.—Saturate the spots with spirits of
turpentine, and let it remain several hours; then rub it between the hands. It
will crumple away, without injuring either the color or the texture of the
article.

Ink Stains on Mahogany.—Put a few drops of spirits of niter in a teaspoonful of
water, touch the spot with a feather dipped in the mixture, and when the ink
disappears, rub it over at once with a rag dipped in cold water, or there will
be a white mark not easily effaced.

Ink Stains on Silver —The tops and other portions of silver ink-stands
frequently become deeply discolored with ink, which is difficult to remove by
ordinary means. It may, however, be completely eradicated by making a little
chloride of lime into a paste with water, and rubbing it upon the stains.
Chloride of lime has been misnamed "the general bleacher," but it is a foul
enemy to all metallic surfaces.

Ink and Iron Mould.—This may be taken out by wetting the spots in milk, then
covering them with common salt. It should be done before the % garment has been
washed. Another way to take out ink, is to dip it in melted tallow. For fine,
delicate articles, this is the best way.

How to Remove Stains from Floors.—For removing spots of grease from boards,
take equal parts of fuller's-earth and pearl-ash, a quarter of a pound of each,
and boil in a quart of soft water, and, while hot, lay it on the greased parts,
allowing it to remain on them for ten or twelve hours; after which it may be
scoured off with sand and water. A floor much spotted with grease should be
completely washed over with this mixture the day before it is scoured.
Fuller's-earth or ox-gall boiled together, form a very powerful cleansing
mixture for floors or carpets. Stains of ink are removed by stroug vinegar, or
salts of lemon will remove them.

To Preserve Steel Goods from Rust.—After bright grates have been thoroughly
cleaned, they should be dusted over with unslaked lime, and thus left until
wanted. All the coils of piano-wires are thus sprinkled, and will keep from
rust for many years. Table-knives, which are not in constant use, ought to be
put in a case in which sifted quick-lime is placed, about eight inches deep.
They should be plunged to the top of the blades, but the lime should not touch
the handles.

To Remove Paint Stains on Windows.—It frequently happens that painters splash
the plate or other glass windows when they are painting the sills. When this is
the case, melt some soda in very hot water and wash them with it, using a soft
flannel. It will entirely remove the paint.

Stains on the Hands.—A few drops of oil vitriol (sulphuric acid) in water, will
take the stains of fruit, dark dyes, stove blacking, etc., from the hands
without injuring them. Care must, however, be taken not to drop it upon the
clothes. It will remove the color from woolen, and eat holes in cotton fabrics.

To remove ink or fruit stains from the fingers, take cream of tartar, half an
ounce; powdered salt of sorrel, half an ounce; mix. This is what is sold for
salts of lemon. ^

To Preserve Polished Iron Work.—Such work may be preserved from rust by a
mixture, not very expensive, consisting of copal varnish mixed with as much
olive oil as will give it a degree of greasiness, adding nearly as much spirits
of turpentine as of varnish.

If Rust has made its appearance upon grates or fire-irons, apply a mixture of
tripoli, with half its quantity of sulphur, mixed on a marble slab, and laid on
with a piece of soft leather. Emory and oil may be applied with an excellent
effect. This will not only clean but polish.

To Extract Grease Spots from Books.—Gently warm the greased or spotted part of
the book or paper, and then press upon it pieces of blottingpaper, one after
another, so as to absorb as much of the grease as possible. Have ready some
tine, clear, essential oil of turpentine heated almost to a boiling state, warm
the greased leaf a little, and then with a soft, clean brush, apply the heated
turpentine both sides of the spotted part. By repeating this application, the
grease will be extracted. Lastly, with another brush, dipped in rectified
spirits of wine, go over the place carefully, until the paper becomes smooth
and clean.

Removing Tar Spots.—The old remedy for removing tar is butter; tar is soluble
in fat, and especially in butter; when this is left on the tar-spot for some
time, both butter and tar are easily washed out by a sponge, with soap and
water. It is the same with resinous wagon-grease. A creamy mixture of powdered
extract of liquorice, with oil of anise-seed, will easily dissolve tar, resin,
pitch, Venice turpentine, etc. It is afterward washed out with soap and warm
water.

Ammonia for Renovation.—Keep constantly in the house some strong spirits of
hartshorn in a ground-glass stoppered bottle. A teaspoonful in a tablespoonful
of water will clean combs and brushes.

In any case where an acid has taken the color from a fabric, ammonia will
restore it. Washing a carpet in ammonia-water—say a tablespoonful of
concentrated ammonia to a quart of warm suds—will take almost any stain out of
it.

In cleaning paint, glass, silver, or gold, it is invaluable, as well as for
keeping the hands soft and white after cleaning all these other things.

For cleaning windows, put a teaspoonful of strong ammonia in a half pint of
clear warm water, wring a cloth out, and rub sashes and glass, then rub with a
dry cloth.

Stains, pencil-marks, fly-specks, and all manner of dirt, disappear under the
ammonia treatment, with no injury to paint or varnish if not used too strong.

Removing Grease from#Silk.—Apply a little magnesia to the wrong side, and the
spots will disappear.

To Remove Grease from Coat Collars.—Wash with a sponge moists ened with
hartshorn and water.

To Restore Crape.—A bit of glue dissolved in skim-milk will restore crape.
Ribbons of every kind should be washed in cold suds, and not rinsed. To Clean
Furs.—Shako und whip them well; then brush; boil some flax-seed; clip a rag in
the water and wipe them slightly. This makes them look nearly as good as new.

To Preserve Purs.—First, hang them out in the sun for a day or two; then give
them a good beating and shaking-up, to be sure no moth is in them already. Then
wrap up a lump of camphor in a rag, and place in each; then • wrap up each in a
sound newspaper and paste together, so that there is no hole or crevice through
which a moth can gain entrance.

To Clean Velvet.—Wet a cloth and put it over a hot flat-iron, and a dry one
over that, then draw the velvet across it, brushing it at the same time with a
soft brush, and it will look as nice as new.

To Restore Silk.—The best method to make old silk look like new, and one that
is employed by millions, is to sponge over the outside with strong, cold black
tea. The silk should afterward be ironed outside.

Wrinkled Silk may be rendered nearly as beautiful as when new, by sponging the
surface with a weak solution of gum-arabic or white glue; then iron on the
wrong side.

To Bleach White Silks or Flannels.—Wash the articles clean, rinse in suds, and
smoke with brimstone while wet; the silk must be brushed or washed with a
sponge; if rubbed] it will never press smoothly; expose the goods to the air,
and the odor will soon pass off.

To Clean White Ostrich Feathers.—Wash them well in soft water with white soap
and blue, if you can get the blue; if not, use the white soap alone; rub them
through white, clean paper, beat them on the paper, shake them before the fire,
dry them in the air by waving them with the hand to and fro. Afterward curl
them.

To Clean Feathers.—Dissolve four ounces of white soap, cut small, in four
pounds of water, moderately hot, in a basin, and make the solution into a
lather by beating with a small rod. Then introduce the feathers, and rub them
well with the hands for five minutes. They are next to be washed in clean water
as hot as the hand can bear it.

To Make Cloth Water-proof.— In a pail of soft water put half a pound of sugar
of lead, half a pound of alum; stir this at intervals until it becomes cool;
then pour it into another pail and put the garment therein, and let it be in
for twenty-four hours, and then hang it up to dry without wringing it.

To Clean Black Cloth.—Dissolve one ounce of bicarbonate of ammonia in one quart
of warm water. With this liquid rub the cloth, using a piece of flannel or
black cloth for the purpose. After the application of this solution, clean the
cloth well with clear water, dry and iron it, brushing the cloth from time to
time in the direction of the fiber.

Cleaning Silk and Merinos.—Grate two or three large potatoes, add to them a
pint of cold water, let them stand a short time, pour off the liquid, clear, or
strain it through a sieve, when it will be ready for use. Lay the silk on a
flat surface, and apply the liquid with a clean sponge till the dirt is well
separated; dip each piece in a pail of clear water, and hang up to dry without
wringing. Iron, while damp, on the wrong side.

To Color Kid Gloves.—Put a handful of logwood into a bowl, cover with alcohol,
and let it soak until it looks strong—one day, perhaps. Put one glove on the
hand, dip a small woolen cloth or sponge into the liquid, wet the glove all
over, rub it dry and hard until it shines, and it will be a nice purple. Repeat
the process, and it will be black.

To Clean Kid Gloves.—Have ready a little new milk in one saucer, a piece of
white soap in another, a clean cloth folded two or three times. On the cloth
lay out the glove smooth and neat. Take a piece of flannel, dip it in the milk,
then rub off a good quantity of soap on the wetted flannel, and commence to rub
the glove toward the fingers, holding it firmly with the left hand. Continue
this process until the glove, if white, looks of a dingy yellow, though clean;
if colored, till it looks dry and spoiled. Lay it to dry, and the operator will
soon be gratified to see that the old glove looks nearly new. It will be soft,
glossy, smooth, and elastic.

Washing Kid Gloves.—First, see that your hands are clean, then put on your
gloves, and wash them as though you were washing your hands, in a basin of
spirits of turpentine. This method is used in Paris. The gloves should be hung
in the air, or some dry place, to carry away the smell of turpentine.

To Extract Grease from Papered Walls.—Dip a piece of flannel in spirits of wine
and rub the greasy spots gently once or twice.

To Clean Wall-Paper.—Tie a soft cloth over a broom, and sweep down the walls
carefully.

WHITEWASHING AND PAINTING.

Cracks in Plastering In some cases the plasterer has used too little

real plaster and too much lime. Pure plaster of Paris will never crack; but as
it sets too quickly for the convenience of the operator, a little lime is mixed
with it. If you try to plaster with lime alone, it will crack all over in
drying, and come off in patches. This indicates the necessity of always using
as little lime as possible, either in the sand used for brick-laying or in the
plaster used for coating the walls.

To Fill Holes in Walls.—Small holes in white walls can easily be repaired
without sending for a mason. Equal parts of plaster of Paris and white sand,
such as is used in most families for scouring purposes, mixed with water to a
paste, applied immediately after removing the loose particles of the walls, and
smoothed with a knife or flat piece of wood, will make the broken place as good
as new. As the mixture hardens very quickly, it is best to prepare but a small
quantity at a time.

Brilliant Zinc Whitewash.—The Manufacturer and Builder says: "Mix oxide of zinc
with common sizing, and apply it with a whitewash brush to the ceiling. After
this apply in the same manner a wash of the chloride of zinc, which will
combine with the oxide to form a smooth cement with a shining face."

Cheap Whitewash.—Slake the lime as usual, except that the water used should be
hot, and nearlf saturated with salt; then stir in four handfuls of fine sand,
to make it thick like cream. Coloring matter can be added to both, making a
light stone-color, a cream-color, or a light buff.

Making Paper Stick to Whitewashed Walls.—Make a sizing of common glue and
water, of the consistency of linseed oil, and apply with whitewash or other
brush to the wall, taking care to go over every part, and especially top and
bottom. Apply the paper in the ordinary way.

New Recipe for Whitewash.—The following recipe for whitewashing has been found
by experience to answer on wood, brick, and stone, nearly as well as oil-paint,
and is much cheaper: Slake half a bushel of unslaked lime with boiling water,
keeping it covered during the process. Strain it and add a peck of salt,
dissolved in warm water; three pounds of ground rice put in boiling water, and
boiled to a thin paste; half a pound of powdered Spanish whiting, and a pound
of clear glue, dissolved in warm water; mix these well together, and let the
mixture stand for several days. Keep the wash thus prepared in a kettle or
portable furnace, and when used put it on as hot as possible, with a painters'
or whitewash brush.

A Brilliant Stucco Whitewash.—Take clean lumps of well-burnt lime, slake in hot
water in a small tub, and cover it to keep in the steam. It should then be
passed through a fine sieve in a fluid form to obtain the flour of lime. Add a
quarter of a pound of whiting or burnt alum, two pounds of sugar, three pints
of rice-flour made into a thin and well-boiled paste, and one pound of glue
dissolved over a slow fire. It is said to be more brilliant than plaster of
Paris, and will last fifty years. It should be put on warm with a paint brush.

To Color and Prevent Whitewash from Rubbing Off.—Alum is one of the best
additions to make whitewash of lime which will not rub off. When powdered chalk
is used, glue-water is also good, but would not do for outside work exposed to
much rain. Give it the desired color by small quantities of lamp-black, brown
sienna, ocher, or other coloring material.

Paint for Kitcnen Walls.—Paint on the walls of a kitchen is much better than
kalsomine, whitewash, or paper, since it does not absorb odors or peel off, and
can be quickly and perfectly cleaned. Any woman who can whitewash can paint her
own kitchen. The wall needs first to be washed with soapsuds, then covered with
a coat of dissolved glue, and then with paint. A broad, flat brush does the
work quickly.

Fire and Water-Proof Faint.—Slake stone lime by putting into a tub, covered to
keep in the steam; when slaked pass the powder through a fine sieve, and to
every six quarts add a quart of rock salt and a gallon of water; then boil and
skim clear; to every five gallons of liquid add pulverized alum, one pound ;
pulverized copperas, one half pound, and stir slowly; add powdered potash,
three fourths pound; very fine sand, or hickory ashes, four pounds; then use
any coloring matter desired, and apply with a brush. It looks better than any
ordinary paint, and is as durable as slate; will stop small leaks in roofs,
prevent moss from growing thereon, make it incombustible, and render brick
impervious to water.

POLISHING FURNITURE.

Best French Naphtha Polish.—Solution of shellac three pounds, and of wood
naphtha three quarts.

Best French Spirit Polish.—Shellac, two pounds; powdered mastic and sandarac,
of each one ounce; copal varnish, half a pint; spirits of wine, one gallon. Mix
in the cold till dissolved.

Polish or Mahogany Color.—Two ounces of beeswax, cut fine; spirits of
turpentine, one ounce; one dram of powdered resin; melt at a gentle heat, and
add two drams of Indian red to give it a mahogany color.

Simplest Polish for Oiled Furniture.—Rub oiled furniture with a woolen cloth
saturated slightly with oil.

Oil for Red Furniture.—Take linseed oil, put it into a glazed pipkin with as
much alkanet root as it will cover. Let it boil gently, and it will become of a
strong red color; when cool it will be fit for use.

Polish of Oil and Alcohol.—One pint of linseed oil, one wine-glass of alcohol;
mix well together; apply to the cloth with a linen rag; rub dry with a soft
cotton cloth, and polish with a silk cloth. Furniture is improved by washing it
occasionally with soap-suds. Wipe dry and rub over with a very little linseed
oil upon a clean sponge or flannel. Wipe polished furniture with silk. •

Polish for Leather Cushions, etc.—Beat well the yelks of two eggs and the white
of one; mix a tablespoonf ul of gin and a teaspoonf ul of sugar thicken it with
ivory black, add it to the eggs, and use as common blacking; the seats or
cushions being left a day or two to harden. This is good for dressing boots and
shoes.

To Give a Fins Color to Cherry-Tree Wood.—Take one ounce of orchanetta; cut it
in two or three bits, and put it to soak for forty-eight hours in three ounces
of good olive oil. With this oil anoint your cherry, tree wood after it is
worked and shaped as you intend it, and it will give it a fine luster.

To Stain Black Walnut.—To impart to common pine the color and appearance of
black walnut the following composition may be used: One quarter of a pound of
asphaltum, one half a pound of beeswax, to one gallon of turpentine. If found
too thin, add beeswax; if too light in color, add asphaltum, though that must
be done with caution, as a very little will make a great difference in the
shade, and black walnut is not what its name implies, but rather a rich dark
brown. Varnishing is not essential, as the wax gives it a good gloss.

Imitation Ebony Stain.—Mix up a strong stain of copperas and extract of
logwood, about equal parts; add powdered nut galls, one-fourth part; stain wood
with solution, dry, rub down well, oil; then use French polish made tolerably
dark with indigo or finely-powdered stone blue.

To Ebonize Various Woods.—Apple, pear, and walnut wood, especially if
fine-grained, may be "ebonized" by the following process: Boil in a glazed
vessel, with water, four ounces of gall-nuts, one ounce of logwood chips, half
an ounce of vitriol, and a half an ounce of crystallized verdigris; filter
while warm, and brush the wood with the hot solution a number of times. The
wood, thus stained black, is then to be coated two or three times (being
allowed to dry completely after each coating) with a solution of one ounce of
iron filings in a quart of good wine vinegar. This is to be prepared hot and
allowed to cool before use.

Water and Varnished Furniture.—Water should never be applied to varnished
furniture, but the slats of bedsteads can be washed and dried, and kerosene
applied to the ends or joints of the bedsteads. Varnished furniture should be
cleaned with a woolen cloth dipped in linseed oil.

Cleansing Polish for Furniture.—Cold drawn linseed oil, one quart; gin or
spirits of wine, half a pint; vinegar, half a pint; butter of antimony, two
ounces; spirits of turpentine, half a. pint; this mixture requires to be well
shaken before it is used. A little of it is then to be poured upon a rub• ber,
which must be well applied to the surface of the furniture. Several
applications will be necessary for new furniture, or for such as has previously
beun French polished or rubbed with beeswax.

Where and How to Varnish.—Varuiah should always be applied in a warm room, us
warm as a person can work in comfortably. At a lower temperature there is
always moisture in the air, and an invisible dew, which give a the varnish a
milky and cloudy appearance. This will happen even on a fine summer day, and
the only preventive is to employ artificial heat to produce a temperature of at
least seventy-five degrees Fahrenheit. At this temperature the moisture is not
precipitated until the alcohol of the varnish has sufficiently evaporated to
leave a thin and smooth film of shellac. The gloss and durability are entirely
dependent upon this.

Varnish for Unpainted Wood.—A good surface may be produced on unpainted wood by
the following treatment: Sand-paper the wood thoroughly as for French
polishing, size it, and lay on a coat of varnish, very thin, with a piece of
sponge or wadding covered with a piece of linen rag. When dry, rub down with
pumice dust, and apply a second coat of varnish. Three or four coats should
produce a surface almost equal to French polish, if the varnish is good and the
pumice be well applied between each coat. The use of a sponge or wadding
instead of a brush, aids in preventing the streaky appearance usually caused by
a brush in the hands of an unskilled person.

Blacking for Stoves.—May be made with half a pound of black lead finely
powdered, mixed with the whites of three eggs well beaten; then dilute it with
sour beer or porter till it becomes as thin as shoe-blacking; after stirring
it, set it over hot coals to simmer for twenty minutes; when cold it may be
kept for use.

Brunswick Black for Varnishing Grates.—Melt four pounds of common asphaltum,
and add two pints of linseed oil and one gallon of oil of turpentine. This
preparation is usually put up in stone-ware bottles for sale, and is used with
a paint brush. If too thick, more turpentine may be added.

To Clean Bronzed Chandeliers, Lamps, etc.—These articles should only be dusted
with a feather brush, or soft cloth, as washing will take off the bronzing.

For Cleaning Brasses Belonging to Mahogany Furniture.—Use for

this purpose, either powdered whiting or scraped rotten-stone, mixed with
sweet-oil, and rubbed on with a chamois-skin.

To Clean Sinks.—Copperas, dissolved in boiling-water and applied with a
whisk-broom, is good for cleaning iron sinks and drains. For zinc, take one
fourth muriatic acid and three fourths water, thickened with whiting and ap- *
plied with a cloth. Scour well with this mixture and then wash with warm water.

ARTICLES FOR THE TOILET.

Rose Oil.—Put any quantity of dried rose-leaves into an earthenware pipkin,
cover them with olive-oil, and keep hot for some hours. The oil will extract
both odor and color.

Cologne Water.—A very fair article, that will improve with age, may be made as
follows: One pint of alcohol, add twelve drops each of oils of bergamot, lemon,
neroli, orange-peel, rosemary, and one dram of cardamom seed.

Another recipe: One pint of alcohol, sixty drops of lavender, sixty drops of
bergamot, sixty drops of essence of lemon, sixty drops of orange-water. To be
corked up and well shaken. This also is better for considerable age.

To Wash Hair Brushes.—Hair brushes, however dirty, may be washed and kept good
for years, without loss of stiffness, by putting a small handful of soda into a
pint jug of boiling water When the soda is melted, put in the brush and stir it
about till clean. Rinse it in cold water, and dry in the sun or by the fire.
The quicker it dries, the harder the bristles will be.

A Paste for Sharpening Razors.—Take prepared putty one ounce, saturated
solution of oxalic acid enough to make a paste; this composition is to be
rubbed over the strop, and when dry, a little water may be added. The acid
having a great attachment for iron, a little friction with this powder gives a
fine edge to the razor.

Shaving Cream.—Take one pound of soft-soap in a jar; add to it one quart best
alcohol; set the jar in a vessel of boiling water until the soap is dissolved.
Perfume with essential oil to suit. This is a good article for shaving,
especially for those troubled with pimples on the face. Two or three drops
rubbed on the face with the end of the finger is enough for shaving. Dip the
end of the brush in a little hot water, brush the face briskly, and it will
raise a rich lather.

To Curl Hair.—Take two ounces of borax, one dram of powdered gum Senegal, one
quart of hot water, (not boiling;) mix, and as soon as the ingredients are
dissolved, add two ounces of spirits of wine strongly impregnated with camphor;
on retiring to rest, wet the hair with the above mixture and roll it in papers
as usual; leave them till morning, when untwist and form into ringlets.

To Remove Tight Rings.—To remove tightly-fitting rings from a finger without
pain, (says the London Lancet,) pass the end of a portion of rather fine twine
underneath the ring, and evenly encircle the finger from below upward ( as
whip-makers bind lashes on) with the remainder, as far as the center of the
finger, then unwind the string from above downward by taking hold of the end
passed under the ring, and it will be found that the ring will gradually pass
along the twine toward the tip of the finger.

Rose Lip-Salve.—No. 1. Oil of almonds, three ounces; alkanet, half an ounce.
Let them stand together in a warm place until the oil is colored, then strain.
Melt one ounce and a half of white wax, and half an ounce of spermaceti with
the oil, stir till it begins to thicken, and add twelve drops of attar of
roses. No. 2. White wax, one ounce; almond oil, two ounces; alkanet, one dram.
Digest in a warm place till sufficiently colored. Strain, and stir in six drops
of attar of roses.*

BIRDS AND BIRD-FOOD.

To Distinguish Canaries.—To distinguish the male bird from the hen, observe the
bird when it is singing, and if it be a cock you will perceive the throat
heaving with a pulse-like motion, a peculiarity which is scarcely perceptible
in the hen.

Place for Cages.—Place the cages so that no draught of air will strike them.
Avoid placing them near the stove, fire-place, or register. About half way
between the floor and the ceiling is best, as the temperature there is
preferable. The room should never be heated above seventy degrees.

Size of Cage Perches.—Very many mean to give their birds all things needed to
make them bright and happy, and at the same time are guilty of great cruelty in
regard to perches! The perches in a cage should be each one of different size,
and the smallest as large as a pipe-stem. If perches are of the right sort, no
trouble is ever had about the bird's claws growing too long; and of all things
keep the perches clean.

Food for Canary Birds.—Give nothing to healthy birds but rape and canary seed,
water, cuttle-fish bone, and gravel-paper or sand on the floor of the cage, no
hemp-seed, and a bath three times a week. When moulting (shedding feathers)
keep warm; avoid all draughts of air. Give plenty of German rape-seed; a little
hard-boiled egg, mixed with crackers grated fine, is excellent. Feed at a
certain hour in the morning. By observing these simple rules, birds may be kept
in fine condition for years. For birds that are sick or have lost their song,
procure bird-tonic at a bird-store.

Care of Young Canaries.—Feed young canaries with white and yelk of hard eggs,
mixed together with a little bread steeped in water. This should be pressed and
placed in one vessel, while in another should be put some boiled rape-seed,
washed in fresh water. Change the food every day. When they are a month old,
put them in separate cages.

* For other articles for the toilet consult previous chapters on health.

Parasites upon Canaries.—The red mite, a minute insect, almost invisible to the
naked eye, but easily seen through the microscope, is found in large numbers in
nearly all the cages containing canaries, particularly those which are kept in
dark rooms away from the light. These tiny creatures shun the light, and
generally leave the birds during the day, concealing themselves in the cracks
and crevices of the cage until darkness arrives, when they sally forth to
attack the canaries. By continually irritating them, they cause a loss of sleep
which occasions" many diseases and very often is the source of their death.

How to Destroy these Parasites.—The presence of these insects is indicated by
the uneasy manner the birds exhibit, becoming dispirited, and sitting in a
drooping position on the perches or on the ground. It is difficult to get rid
of them. A plan simple and effectual is to place in the cage a hollow reed with
three or four gimlet holes along it, as a substitute for the ordinary perch.
The mites hide in the reed with the return of light, and can be readily shaken
from it. In a short time the insects can all be destroyed by this easy process.

Food for Mocking-Birds.—1. One medium-sized boiled potato (without salt) and
the yelk of one hard-boiled egg, chopped together very fine when warm. In cold
weather this may last two days, but in summer should be made fresh daily.

2. Ground or bruised hemp-seed, sixteen ounces; ground or bruised rice, four
ounces; dust of butter crackers, eight ounces; flax-seed meal, two ounces; mix
and put in a pan with two ounces of lard, and cook until it has a brown color,
stirring with a spoon to keep it from sticking or getting into lumps. One or
two tablespoonfuls a day, with grated carrot, is sufficient.*

To Distinguish Thrushes—Food.—The male bird may be distinguished from a hen by
a darker back and the more glossy appearance of the feathers. The breast also
is white. Their natural food is insects, worms, and snails. In a domesticated
state they will eat raw meat, but snails and worms should be procured for them.

Care of Young Thrushes.—Young birds are hatched about the middle of April, and
should be kept very warm. They should be fed with raw meat, out small, or bread
mixed in milk with hemp-seed well bruised; when they can feed themselves give
them lean meat cut small, and mixed with bread or German paste, plenty of clean
water, and keep them in a warm, dry, and sunny situation.

Food of Bullfinches.—Old birds should be fed with German paste, and

* Fortit and Stream.

occasionally rape-seed. The Germans occasionally give thera a little poppyseed,
and a grain or two of rice, steeped in Canary wine, when teaching them to pipe,
as a reward for the progress they make. Bird-organs, or flageolets, are used to
teach them to sing.

Care of Young Bullfinches.—Bullfinches breed three or four times a year. The
young require to be kept very warm, and to be fed every two hours, with
rape-seed, soaked for several hours in cold water, afterward scalded and
strained, bruised, mixed with bread, and moistened with milk. One, two, or
three mouthfuls at a time.

Linnets and their Food.—Male birds are browner on the back than the hens, and
have some of the large feathers of the wings white up to the quills. Canary and
hemp-seed, with occasionally a little groundsel, watercress, chickweed, etc.,
constitute their food.

Blackbirds and their Food.—The cock-bird is of a deep black, with a yellow
bill. The female is dark brown. It is difficult to distinguish male from female
birds when young; but the darkest generally are males. Their food consists of
German paste, bread, meat, and bits of apple. The same treatment as given for
the thrush applies to the blackbird.

To Distinguish Skylarks.—The male bird is recognized by the largeness of his
eye, the length of his claws, the mode of erecting his crest, and by marks of
white in the tail. It is also a larger bird than the hen.

The Cages of Skylarks.—The cage should be of the following proportions: Length,
one foot five inches; width, nine inches; height, one foot three inches. There
should be a circular projection in front, to admit of a fresh turf being placed
every two or three days, and the bottom of the cage should be plentifully and
constantly sprinkled with river sand. All vessels containing food should be
placed outside, and the top of the cage should be arched and padded, so that
the bird may not injure itself by jumping about.

Food of Skylarks.—Their food, in a natural state, consists of seeds, insects,
and also buds, green herbage, as clover, endive, lettuce, etc., and
occasionally berries. When confined, they are usually fed with a paste made in
the following manner: Take a portion of bread, well-baked and stale, put it
into fresh water, and leave it until quite soaked through, then squeeze out the
water and pour boiled milk over it, adding two-thirds of the same quantity of
barley-meal well sifted, or, what is better, wheat-meal. This should be made
fresh every two days. Occasionally the yelk of a hardboiled egg should be
crumbled small and given to the birds, as well as a little hemp-seed,
meal-worms, and elderberries. Great cleanliness should be observed in the cages
of these birds.

RULES FOR CARVING.

Carving Knives.—These should always "be put in edge" before the guests are
called to the table. Let them be light as well as sharp. Dispense if possible
with the "steel" after the guests are seated. However closely the guests are
compelled to sit, give the carver plenty of room.

Carving Dishes.—Joints which require carving should be placed on plates of
ample size, and the dish should be so placed as to give the operator complete
command over the joint.

To Carve a Fowl.—To carve a fowl (which should always be laid with the breast
uppermost) place the fork in the breast, and take off the wings and less
without turning the fowl; then cut out the "merry-thought," cut slices from the
breast, take out the collar bone, cut off the side pieces, and then cut the
carcass in two. Divide the joints in the legs of a turkey.

To Carve a Fillet.—To carve a fillet of veal, begin at the top, and help to the
stuffing with each slice. In a breast of veal separate the breast and brisket,
and then cut them up, asking which part is preferred.

To Carve a Round of Beef.—First cut away the irregular outside pieces, to
obtain a good surface, and then serve thin and broad slices. Serve bits of the
udder fat with the lean.

To Carve a Sirloin.—In carving a sirloin, cut thin slices from the side next to
you, (it must be put on the dish with the tenderloin underneath,) then turn it,
and cut from the tenderloin. Help the guests to both kinds.

To Carve a Leg.—In carving a leg of mutton or a ham, begin by cutting across
the middle to the bone. Cut a tongue across, not lengthwise, and help from the
middle part.

To Carve a Fig.—In carving a pig it is customary to divide it and take off the
head before it comes to the table, as to many persons the head is revolting.
Cut off the limbs and divide the ribs. The ribs are considered very choice.

To Carve a Calve's Head.—Carve across the cheek, and take pieces from any part
that is easily reached. The tongue and brain-sauce are served separate.

To Carve a Saddle of Mutton.—Cut thin slices parallel with the backbone; or
slice it obliquely from the bone to the edge. Saddles of pork or lamb are
carved in the same manner.

To Carve a Spare-Rib.—A spare-rib of pork is carved by separating the chops,
which should previously have been jointed. Cut as far as the joint, then return
the knife to the point of the bones, and press over to dis

close the joint, which may then be relieved with the point of the knife. Hams
are cut in very thin slices from the knuckle to the blade.

^To Carve Fish.—Fish are served with a fish-slice, or the new fish-knife and
fork, and requires very little carving, care being required, however, not to
break the flakes, which from their size add much to the beauty of cod and
salmon. Serve part of the roe, milt, or liver, to each person. The heads of cod
and salmon, sounds of cod, are likewise considered delicacies.

Order of Serving.—It is best for the carver to supply the plates, and let the
waiter hand them round, instead of putting the question to each guest as to
which part he prefers, and then striving to serve him with it, to the prejudice
of others present. Ladies should be assisted before gentlemen.

PASTE(AND CEMENTS.

Rice Flour Cement.—This cement, much used in China and Japan, is made by mixing
fine rice-flour with cold water, and simmering over a slow fire until a thick
paste is formed. This is superior to any other paste either for parlor or
workshop purposes. When made of the consistence of plaster, clay models, busts,
bass-reliefs, etc., may be formed of it, and the articles when dry, are
susceptible of high polish, and very durable.

Paste that will Keep a Year.—Dissolve a teaspoonful of alum in a quart of warm
water. When cold, stir in flour to give it the consistency of thick cream,
being particular to beat up all the lumps. Stir in as much powdered resin as
will lay on a silver dime, and throw in a half a dozen cloves. Have on the fire
a tea-cup of boiling water; pour the flour mixture into it, stirring well all
the time. In a few minutes it will be the consistency of mush. Pour it into an
earthen or china vessel; let it cool; lay a cover on, and put it in a cool
place. When needed for use take out a portion and soften it with warm water.*

Liquid Glue.—Dissolve one ounce of borax in a pint of boiling water; add two
ounces of shellac, and boil in a covered vessel until the lac is dissolved.
This forms a very useful and cheap cement) it answers well for pasting labels
on tin, and withstands damp much better than the common glue. The liquid glue
made by dissolving shellac in naphtha Is dearer, soon dries up, and has an
unpleasant smell.

* The perfumed, permanent paste, manufactured by Mr. J. 3. Chase, 800
Mnlberry-strett, New York, Is highly recommended and most convenient for use.

k

To Prevent Glue from Smelling Badly.—A teaspoonful of saltpeter added to a
large pot full of glue will effectually prevent it from smelling badly;
besides, it causes it to dry faster and harder than it would without it.

Cement for Iron and Stone.—Glycerine and litharge stirred to a paste hardens
rapidly, and makes a suitable cement for iron upon iron, for two stone
surfaces, and especially for fastening iron to stone. The cement is insoluble,
and is not attacked by strong acids.

Diamond Cement.—The diamond cement which is so useful in joining china, wood,
leather, etc., is formed as follows: White glue, (or gelatine,) four lbs.;
white lead, (dry,) one lb.; soft water, four qts.; alcohol, one qt. Boil the
glue and lead in the water by means of a water-bath; when the glue is
dissolved, add the alcohol and stir until the whole is well mixed. Pour into
vials for use.

Cement for Metal and Glass.—The following cement will firmly attach any
metallic substances to glass or porcelain: Mix two ounces of a thick solution
of glue with one ounce of linseed-oil varnish, or three fourths of an ounce of
Venice turpentine; boil them together, stirring them until they mix as
thoroughly as possible. The pieces cemented should be tied together for two or
three days.

Glue for Uniting Card-Board, etc.—For uniting card-board, paper, and small
articles of fancy work, the best glue, dissolved with about onethird its weight
of coarse brown sugar in the smallest quantity of boiling water is very good.
When this is in a liquid state it may be dropped in a thin cake upon a plate,
and allowed to dry; when required for use, one end of the cake may be moistened
by the mouth and rubbed on the substances to be joined.

A Cement Withstanding Heat and Moisture.—Pure white lead, or zinc white, ground
in oil, and used very thick, is an excellent cement for mending broken
crockery-wane; but it takes a long time to harden. It is well to put the mended
object in some store-room, and not to look at it for several weeks or even
months. It will then be found so firmly united that if ever again broken it
will not part on the line of the former fracture.

Cement for Crockery.—To make a good cement for crockery, take one pound of
white shellac pulverized; two ounces of clean gum mastic; put these into a
bottle, and then add one half pound pure sulphuric ether. Let it stand half an
hour, and then add half a gallon ninety per cent, alcohol, and shake
occasionally until it is dissolved. Heat the edges of the article to be mended,
and apply the cement with a pencil-brush; hold the article firmly together till
the cement cools.

To Make Compound Glue.—Take very fine flour, mix it with white of eggs,
isinglass and a little yeast; mingle the materials; heat them well together;
spread them, the batter being made thin with gum-water, on even tin plates, and
dry them in a stove, then cut them out for use. To color them, tinge the paste
with Brazil or vermillion for red; indigo or verditer, etc., for blue; saffron,
turmeric, or gamboge for yellow.

HOUSEHOLD ORNAMENTS.

Pretty Hanging Ornaments.—Take a common pine cone, and plant in its crevices a
few canary seeds; place this half way in a hyacinth water-glass, and the seeds
will sprout, and throw out delicate little green feathery blades shortly,
filling the whole upper portion with a little festoon of verdure.

Take a large turnip and scrape out the inside, leaving a thick wall all around.
Fill the cavity with earth, and plant in it some clinging vine or
morning-glory. Suspend the turnip with cords, and in a little time the vines
twine around the strings, and the turnip, sprouting from below, will put forth
leaves and stems that will turn upward and gracefully curl around the base.

Take a, common tumbler or fruit can and fill it nearly full of soft water. Then
tie a bit of coarse lace or cheese-sacking over it, and press down into the
water, covered with a layer of peas. In a few days they will sprout, the little
thread-like roots going down through the lace into the water, and the vines can
be trained up to twine around the window; or, what is prettier, a frame may be
made for the purpose.

The sweet-potato vine is also a curiosity; few would believe, until they have
tried it, how pretty a sight might be made of it. Put a sweet potato in a
tumbler of water, or any similar glass vessel; fill with water; keep the lower
end of the tuber about one or two inches from the bottom of the vessel; keep on
the mantel shelf; sun it for an hour or two each day, and soon little roots
will appear—the eye will throw up a pretty vine, and grow rapidly over any
trellis-work above.

The morning-glory is one of the prettiest climbers for parlor windows. Give it
plenty of sun.

Pretty Mantel Ornaments.—A very pretty mantel ornament may be obtained by
suspending an acorn, by a piece of thread tied around it, within half an inch
of the surface of some water contained in a vase, tumbler, or saucer, and
allowing it to remain undisturbed for several weeks. It will soon burst open,
and small roots will seek the water; a straight and tapering stem, with
beautiful, glossy green leaves, will shoot upward, and present a very pleasing
appearance.

Chestnut trees may be grown in this manner, but their leaves are not as
beautiful as those of the oak. The water should be changed once a month, taking
care to supply water of the same warmth; bits of charcoal added to it will
prevent the water from souring. If the leaves turn yellow, add one drop of
ammonia into the utensil which holds the water, and it will renew their
luxuriance.

Take a saucer and fill it with fresh green moss. Place in the center a pine
cone, large size, having first wet it thoroughly. Then sprinkle it thoroughly
with grass seed. The moisture will close the cone partially, and in a day or
two the tiny glass spires will appear in the interstices, and in a week you
will have a perfect cone of beautiful verdure. Keep secure from the frost, and
give it plenty of water, and you will have a "thing of beauty" all the winter.

Rules for Arranging Cut Flowers.—The first thing to be considered in arranging
cut flowers is the vase. If it is scarlet, blue, or many-colored, it must
necessarily conflict with some hue in your boquet. Choose rather pure white,
green, or transparent glass, which allows the delicate stems to be seen. Brown
Swiss-wood, silver, bronze, or yellow straw conflict with nothing. The vase
must be subordinate to what it holds. Use a bowl for roses; tall-spreading
vases for gladiolus, fern, white lilies, and the like; cups for violets and
tiny wood flowers. A flower-lover will in time collect shapes and sizes to suit
each group.

Colors should be blended together with neutral tints, of which there are
abundance—whites, grays, purples, tender greens—and which harmonize the pink,
crimsons, and brilliant reds into soft unison.

Certain flowers assort well only in families, and are spoiled by mixing. Of
these are balsams, hollyhocks, and sweet-peas, whose tender liquid hues are as
those of drifting sunset clouds. Others may be massed with good effect. In
arranging a large basket or vase it is well to mentally divide it into small
groups, making each group perfectly harmonious with itself, and blending the
whole with green and delicate colors. And above all, avoid stiffness. Let a
bright tendril or spray of vine spring forth here and there, and wander over
and around the vase at its will.

The water should be warm for a winter vase—cool, but not iced, for a summer
one. A little salt or a bit of charcoal should be added in hot weather, to
obviate vegetable decay, and the vase filled anew each morning. With these
precautions your flowers, if set beside an open window at night, will keep
their freshness for many hours even in July, and reward by their beautiful
presence the kind hand which arranged and tended them.

To Crystallize Grasses.—The best rule is to put in as much alum as the water
will dissolve; when it will take no more, it is called a saturated solution.
Then pour it into an earthen jar, and boil it slowly until evaporated nearly
one half. Now suspend the grasses in such a manner that their tops will be
under the solution. Put the whole in a cool place where not the least draught
of air or motion will disturb the formation of crystals. In twentyfour or
thirty-six hours take out the grasses, and let them harden in a cool room.
Beautiful blue crystals can be made by preparing blue-vitriol or sulphate of
copper in the same manner; but don't let it drop on your dress or the carpet.
Gold-colored crystals can be produced by adding turmeric to the alum solution,
and a few drops of extract of log-wood will make rich, purple crystals.

To Take Leaf Impressions.—Hold oiled paper in the smoke of a lamp, or of pitch,
until it becomes coated with the smoke; then take a perfect leaf, having a
pretty outline; after warming it between the hands, lay the leaf upon the
smoked side of the paper, with the under side down, press it evenly upon the
paper, that every part may come in contact; go over it lightly with a
rolling-pin, then remove the leaf with care to a plain piece of white
notepaper, and use the rolling-pin again; you will then have a beautiful
impression of the delicate veins and outline of the leaf. And this process is
so simple that any person, with a little practice to enable him to apply the
right quantity of smoke to the oil paper and give the leaf proper pressure, can
prepare leaf impressions such as a naturalist would be proud to possess.
Specimens can be neatly preserved in book form, interleaving the impressions
with tissue paper.

Rockeries, Vases, and Hanging-Baskets. — They can, if properly made, and
furnished With suitable, healthy plants, be made very ornamental additions to
the lawn and piazza. Artificial rockeries should partake of a natural
appearance as much as possible. Ferns, alpine plants, cypress-vines, vincas,
lobelia, dwarf stocks, etc., are good plants for these. Vases, and
hanging-baskets, whatever their design, should be at least ten or twelve inches
in diameter, and six inches or more in depth. Be sure the drainage is good.
Glazed pots, and those without outlet for water, are not good. The soil should
not be over-rich, as it forces the growth too much for beauty and gracefulness.
Climbing and drooping vines may, however, be stimulated. A good composition is
one-third "scouring-sand," the rest dark loam and leaf-mold. The fallings
around pine-trees are excellent. For ilie center plant, dracena or achyranthus,
or coleus, or centaurea is good. Next to center, begonias of all sorts, pilea,
verbenas, petunia, vincas, sedunes. Kor edges, oxalis-lobelia, and various
ivies and grasses. Water regularly.

INDEX.

Hon.

Page

Only Man has a Home 9

Virtues of the Hearth are the Securities

of the People 9

Home Builds the House 9

Origin of the Family 10

How the Family Develops Character... 10
The Family often Ripens Rapidly those

who Carry its Burdens 11

The Family Multiplies Happiness 11

The Family Blesses in Necessitating

Housekeeping 12

Marriaoe.

"What God thinks of Marriage 18

Principles Governing Marriage 18

How To Perpetuate The Honet-moon.

Continue your Courtship 16

Do not Assume a Right to Neglect
your Companion More after Marriage
than you did Before 16

Have no Secrets that you Keep from
your Companion 16

Do not Conceal your Marriage for an
Hour 16

Avoid the Appearance of Evil 16

Onco Married never open your Mind to
any Change 16

Make the best of the Inevitable 10

Keep Step in Mental Development 16

Keep a Lively Interest in the Business
of the Firm 16

Gauge your Expenses by your Reve-
nues ... 17

Start from where your Parents Started
Rather than From Where they Now
Are I7

Avoid Debt I7

Do not Both get Angry at the Same
Time I7

Do not Allow yourself Ever to Come to
an Open Rupture I7

Study to Understand your Companion's
Disposition, in Order to Please and
Avoid Friction I7

Study to Conform your Tastes and
Habits to those of your Compan-
ion . rr. It

Chang and Eng were the Siamese Twins 17

How To Be A Good HrsBAiro.

Paai

Honor your Wife I7

Love your Wife I7

Show your Love IT

Suffer for your Wife if Need be 18

Consult with Her 18

Stwiv to Keep her Young 18

Study with Her 18

Help to Bear Her Burdens 18

Make yourself Helpful by Thoughtful-

ness 18

Express your Will, not by Commands,

but by Suggestions 18

Study your own Character as Husband. 18

Seek to Refine your Nature 19

Be a Gentleman, as Well as Husband... 19
Remember the Past Experience of your

Wife 19

Level Up 19

Stay at Home 19

Take your Wife with You into Society.. 20

How To Bb A Good Wife.

Reverence your Husband 20

Love Him 20

Do not Conceal your Love from Him .. 40

Forsake All for Him 20

f 'onflile in Hun 20

Keep His Love 20

Cultivate the Modesty and Delicacy of

Youth 20

Cultivate Personal Attractiveness 21

Cultivate Physical Attractiveness. 21

Do not Forget the Power of Incidental

Attention 21

Make your Home Attractive 21

Preserve Sunshine 22

Study vour Husband's Character 22

Cultivate His Better Nature 22

Study to meet your Duties as a Wife... 28
Seek to secure your Husband's Happi-
ness 23

Study his Interest 28

Practice Economy 28

Facts For Parents.

Paternity Is Earth's Highest Dignity... 28

Children are Boons 28

Children Give New Life to a Home 28

Children are Great Teachers of Theology 24
Parents put tliolr Image and Superscrip-
tion upon their Character 34

Prepare lor the Duties of the Parental

Relation 24

Conduct your Home for your Children. 24

Remember that Children do Grow Old . 24
Recall, as distinctly as Possible, your

own Youth 24

Family Government.

Forty-two Hints 24

SCGOKStIONH TO CHILDREN.

Reverence your Parents 29

Appreciate your Parents 29

Do not shorten Childhood by Hasto 28

Confldo in yuur Parents 29

Members Of The Family.

Brothers In the Family 29

Slaters In the Family 29

How to Treat the Aged 20

A Mother In-law in the Family 80

A Step-mother in the Family 80

Servants In The Family.

A good Waster maken a good Servant .. 80

May expect Promotion from showing
Oapacltv 81

Should'Identify Himself with the In'
terests of liis Employer 81

Should Preserve the Strictest Fidelity.. 81

Should Serve them out of Sight as
Scrupulously as when under the Em-
ployer's Eye 81

Muy Secure his wishes by Requests,
not by Commands 81

Should Seek to meet the Wishes of the
Employer in Spirit 81

Should Secure Permanence of Engage-
ment by making himself Necessary.. 81

Should Can'fully study the Duties As-
signed 81

Should avoid Habits and Manners dis-
tasteful to his Employer 81

Bhould avoid Talking Much 81

Should seek to Gain and Retain Re-
spect. 81

Hints To Employers.

Employer should remember that a0
Ktghth do not center In Himself 81

Identify himself with the Interests of his
Employes 81

Pay Honestly what he would Expect in
u Reversed Case 81

Pay Promptly 81

Watch over the Morals of his Em-
ployes 81

Inspire Respect 81

Encourage the Worker

Instruct With Kindliness. »1

Correct in Authority and Gentleness.... 81

Mistress Iw The Family.
Should Remember that her Position

gives her Certain Dignity 82

She Must Preserve Good Temper 82

Avoid Fault-finding 82

Improve your Servants by showing

them how they can do Better S2

Secure their Confidence in Your Kind-
ness 82

Keep them in Self-respect 82

Put your Servants Into the Way of Self-
care 82

Inspire Them with the Sense of Life's
Worth 82

SUPERIORS AND INFERIORS.

Proper Respect for Superiors is a due
Tart of Liberty 82

Children should be Subordinate to Par-
ents 82

Superiors in Age, Office, and Station, have
Precedence 82

A Parent, Teacher, or Employer, may
Admonish 84

A Superior may use Language and Man-
ners of Freedom 82

Respect is Due from All to All 33

It is the most Exalted Philosophy to ac-
cept Facu 88

Training Children Fob Given End*.

What is your Purpose in Training 88

Training*for Usefulness 38

Training for Wealth 88

Training for Greatness 84

Training for Refined Society 84

Training for Heaven 84

Choosing A Calling.

But few are Elected to any one Particu-
lar Calling or Trade ... 84

Study your Natural Proclivities 84

Study "Providence 84

Do not Fret over your Natural Qualifi-
cations 84

Wishes are often Pceaentiments of Capa-
bilities 85

Having Settled the Calling, let it Re-
main Settled 80

Pith 85

How To Conduct Family Prayer.

Conduct It arrording to your Strength.. 85

Have Family Prayer 85

Collect your Household 85

Ua\e eacli Mtunlx-r tuko Port »

Pag* 1

If the Father Is not a Professing Chris-
tian, the Duty of Leadership De-
volves upon the Mother 35

If the Father cannot command Courage
to Lead in Prayer 86

It is a valuable Custom on the Sabbath
Morning for the "Worship to be Va-
ried 86

It is Helpful to have a Room where all
Meet for Prayer 86

Gbaob At This Table.

Render unto God Thanks for Daily
Bread 86

How To Profit By Habit.
Habit Becomes Destiny 86

Hints And Helps In Conversation.
Eighty-four Hints and Helps 87-41

Good Manners.

Politeness is Loving thy Neighbor as

Thyself 41

Affectation is the Foe of Good Breeding 41

The Divino Law of Politeness 41

Gentleman and Gentlewoman 42

Good Manner's are Important Helps.... 42

American Manners 42

Study, Observation, and Experiment... 42

Should he Taught to Children Gradually 42
A Few Brief liules should be Suspended

in Eveiy School-room 42

Table Manners.

Cleanliness is the First Element of De-
cency 42

Children should be Trained in the Family 43

Table Rules 48

Table Improprieties. (44 described) 44

[merged small][ocr errors][merged small]

Salutations, And now To Make Them.

Pmi

Salutation the Touchstone of Good

Breeding 47

A Great Eudeuess not to Eoturn a Salu-
tation 47

Reckptions—Best Methods.

The Duty of Receiving Visitors 47

When one Enters, Rlse Immediately... 47

If the Master Receives 47

If Several Come at Once 48

If Visitor is a Stranger 48

If Some who are Present Withdraw.... 48

Visits And Calls.

Visits of Ceremony, Congratulation, Con-
dolence, and Friendship 48

Visits of Ceremony 47

Visits of Congratulation 48

Visits of Condolence 43

Visits of Friendship 48

Visiting Cards 48

A Gentleman Attending Ladies Making

Calls 48

In Terminating a Call 48

Morning Call 48

Soiled Over-shoes and Wet Wraps 48

Gentlemen Attending should be Prompt 48

Tweuty-eight Eules 48

Hosts And Guests.

Hosts should give Guests Home Feeling BO
Guests should Show Hosts the Home

Feeling 50

Appointments.

Dinner Parties 51

Evening Parties. 51

Christmas 51

The New Year 52

Weddings.

Custom gives Liberty to Follow Taste.. 58

For a Stylish Wedding 58

For a Formal Wedding 58

In a Well-ordered Wedding 63

When Ceremony is performed in Church 58

Following Bridesmaids and Groomsmen 54

Order of Approach 64

If the Ring is used 54

Have only Ushers 54

Order Changes with Fancy. 54

When Ceremony is Endea 54

If Ceremony performed in House 54

Bridegroom takes early occasion to

Thank Clergyman 54

Funerals.

When Member of Family Dies 54

A Funeral Service 54

Minister Not Expected to go to Grave.. 54

Important Rules or Conduct.

Pao»

Always Respectful to Parents 55

Courtfxtoi to Brothers and Sisters 65

Det.eate Attentions of Lover. 55

Mutual Kindness between Employers

and Employed 55

POLITENESS.

Seventy-two Important Rules for 55

Amusements—Their Importance,

To Keep Enemy out of Fort, Occupy

It Yourself 58

Wheu Amusements become Sinful 53

Home Entebtainment

Provide In the Home not only Instruct-
ive, but also Entertaining/. Heading;...

Provide Good Supply of Pictures and
Toys for very young Children

Enter into the'Sports of your Children.

Lead Children to Cultivate Fruits and
Flowers

Cultivate Music, Vocal and Instrumental

Collect Shells, Plants, nnd Specimens in
Geologv and Mineralogy

Give the Boys Boxes of Tools

Give Little 'Girls Dolls, and nice Large
Dolls to Larger Girls

Interest the Children in Decorating the
Home

Celebrate Birthdays, Holidays, and Anni-
versaries

As far as possible lot Each Child have a
Companion near Its own Age, with
Congenial Tastes

Use Hospitality

Establish a Reading Circle

Keep Up Family Relations After Leav-
ing Home,

[ocr errors]

How And What To Read.

The Use of Books

A Course of Reading

A Few Books mav Give Culture 60

Choosing Books is Important Business. 60
Some Books should be Read Whether

we Like Them or Not 61

Never Read Second-class Stories 61

Never Read what you Do Not Wish to

Remember 61

Health At Home.

Health is Wealth

Special Home Ministry

Ministry must Begin Early 68

Ministry Illustrated *"

Another Illustration

Ctioosmo A Physician.

Select the Physician Early 64

Select a Phvsician ol Integrity 64

Choose a Physician or Clean Lips 64

Having Chosen Him, Give Him Tour

Confidence 64

He should be Able. Thorough as a Stu-
dent, of Untiring Industry 64

Which School of Medicine. 65

Be Considerate of his Time and Rest... 66
Don't Abuse his Confidence by Trivial

Calls 65

Physician in the Intervals of Sickness... 66
Better to care for a Man's Health than

for his Disease 65

Why do Successful Medical Men often

Die Prematurely f 66

Physician should be Reverential 66

Qualities of a Good Doctor, by a Doctor 66

Prevention Op Disease.

Early and Stranjre Notions of Disease.. 67

What is Disease? 61

Many Diseases may be Avoided 67

Methods of Prevention 68

Responsibility of Health Commissioners 63

The Divine Plan 68

Why Medicine is Taken 68

The Blood—Its Relation To Life And
Health.

Change and Waste 69

Supply from the Blood 69

Quantity of the Blood 69

Effects Produced by Loss of Blood...;. 70

Transfusion of Blood 70

Composition of Blood 70

Water of the Blood 70

Mineral Ingredients 70

Albumen in the Blood 71

Albumen 71

Quantity of Albumen 71

Fibrine 71

Other Substances 71

Described Globules of the Blood 7l

Remarkable Characteristics of the Glob-
ules 72

Color of Blood Globules 72

Opacity of the Blood 72

Whlto Globules 72

Coagulation of the Blood 78

Time for Coagulation 78

Cause of Coagulation 78

Serum of the Blood 73

A "Clot" of Blood 74

Importance of Coagulation 74

Coagulation Stops Bleeding 74

Coagulation in the Interior of the Body 74

Ligature nnd Coagulation 75

Coagulation Spontaneous 75

Why Coagulation does not Stop Circula-
tion 75

Two Different Kinds of Blood in the

Body 71

Food And Health.

Pas*

Food Makes Blood for the Body, 76

Amount of Food Daily Needed 76

Kinds of Food Needed 77

Process of Digestion 77

Nutritious and Healthy Articles of Food 77

A Suggestive Conversation 78

Onions 78

Tomatoes 79

Healthful Bread 79

ITnground Wheat 79

A Very Nutritious Bread 80

Fresh or Stale Bread. Which? 60

Oat Meal SO

Poisonous Properties of Moldy Bread.. 81

H.'althfulness of Fruit. SI

Fruit Saves Doctors' Bills 81

Danger of Eating Fruit to Excess 62

Special Danger in Summer Vacation— 82

Are Nuts Healthful r 82

Salt with Nuts 82

Hints About Healthful Eating.

A Good Appetite Healthful 88

Appetite not an Infallible Guide 88

Evil of Rapid Eating 88

How to Regulate the Quantity of Food 83

Eating too Much 84

Pood should be Thoroughly Chewed... 64

Hint about "Small Mouthful* '* 84

How Much shall we Eat? 81

Lus't of Appetite, and How to Recover it 85

Rest Before and After Eating 85

Eating Between M^als 85

Best Times for Meals 83

Comparative Value of Different Modes

of Cooking 86

Variety of Vegetables at the Same Meal 66

u How Long to Starve" 87

Food Fob The Sice.

Toast Water

Bai ley Water

. 87

'87

Bar ev Gruel 87

Oitmeal Gruel 87

Parched Corn Gruel 88

Ground Rice Milk S8

Bread Jelly 88

Iceland Moss Jelly

Apple Tapioca

Tapioca Jelly

Meat Jelly 88

To make Arrow-root 89

Apple Water 89

Apple Tea 89

Currant Drink 89

Beverage of Figs and Apples 89

Ice Cream and Beef Juice 69

Broth from Fowls 89

Chicken Broth 69

To Cook birds for Convalescents 90

Mutton Broth 90

A f-troltg Broth ... 90

Calves'Feet 90

Nourishing Soup 90

[ocr errors]

PAflK

Honey 90

Isinglass 90

Brewis 90

Suet and Milk 91

Mucilage of Gum-arablo 91

Strong Tonic DHnk 91

Bran Tea 91

Savory Custard. 91

Raw Beef 91

Recipe for Beef Tea 92

Water— Its Relation To Health.

Its Source 93

Spring and Well Water in the Country.. 93

How Water Becomes Polluted 98

Caution in Locating Wells 94

Care in Constructing Cisterns 94

How to Examine Suspected Water 94

Purifving Water with Alum 94

Is Soft Water Better than Hard Water

for Drinking Purposes? 95

Water Cure or Hydropathy 95

Water a Powerful Absorbent 95

Caution concerning Standing Water .... 95

Distilled Water 95

Do Lead Pipes Poison the Water 96

Ice-water And Health.

Ice-Water Hinders Digestion 96

lee Drinks affecting the Head 96

Other evils of Iced Drinks 97

A Suggestive Caution about Ice 97

How to Cool Drinking Water Without

Ice ,.

Summer Beverages.

Avoid All Alcoholic Drinks 98

Good Cool Water 98

To Allay Thirst without Drinking 98

The Best kind of Water 98

Lemonade and Lemons 98

Lemon Sugar for Traveling 99

Lemons for Excessive Thirst 99

Lemons for Invalids 99

Lentous at " Tea-time" 99

Organic Matter in Drinking Water 99

Various Lirinks 100

Orangeade Medically Prescribed 100

Ices and Ice-cream 101

Tea, Coffee, And Health.

How Tea is Grown 101

Preparation of Tea for Market 101

Tea Plant in Respect of Quality 102

Tea and Digestion 103

Tea-drinking and Sick Headache; an Il-
lustration 102

The Doctrine Stated 103

A Home Case 103

Was the Case Hereditary? 108

Failure ol Remedies 108

Mote Careful Investigation 104

The True Cause SuspucUd 104

The Usns.1 Answer 104

First Efforts for Relief 104

Relief nt Lust 104

Relapse and Recovery 105

Was the Case " Peculiar" 109

A Remarkable Test. 105

A Second Remarkable Test 106

A Third Remarkable Test 106

Relief for Most Headache Sufferers 106

The Kinds of Tea Used 107

Other Suspected Bad Effects ot Tea 107

Tea a Powerful Eidtant 107

Tea a Powerful Astringent 107

How to Test Each Case Properly 107

How to Stop Drinking Tea 108

The Old Cry Slated 108

How Tea was llanlshed from a Minis-
ter's Table 108

la Tea Good for Well People? 109

Coffee as a Beverage 109

Substitute for Coffee 110

The Air Wb Breathe.

The Wonder of Breathing 110

Fresh Air Constantly Seeded 110

What is Pure Air? Ill

How Fresh Air Purines the Blood Ill

Capacity of the Lungs for Air 112

Amount of Air We Breathe 112

Healthful Respiration 112

Relief from Hiccough 118

How to Check Sneezing, Coughing, etc. 118
Evil Effect of Breathing Respired Air.. 114
Air in Rooms Vitiated by Lighted Fires 114
Impure Air in Small Rooms and Tene-
ment Houses 114

How to Ventilate Houses 115

Air in Sick Rooms 115

Bad Air in School and Lecture Rooms.. 115

Teachers and Bad Air 116

Foul Air in Churches 116

How to Remove the Foul Air from

Churches 116

Bad Air versus Religion U8

Night Air Healthy 118

Water as a Purifier 113

Sea Air 118

Air at the Seaside 118

Are Winds Healthful? 118

Dampness of the Air and Health 119

Sea and Mountain Air Compared 119

Mutual Diffusion of Air 119

Our Great Enemies, the Marshes 120

DisiNntOTANTs — How To Prepare And
Use Them.

Fresh Air and Sunlight 120

Water 120

Charcoal 121

Charcoal and Lime 121

Clav 121

Quickllmo and Gypsum 121

Billed Ashes 121

Surface Boil 121

Fresh 8tone-llme . . 121

Copperas 121

Chloride of Lime 122

Salt and Lime Paste 128

Carbolic Acid 122

Salt and Nitrate of Lead 122

'' Disinfecting Mixture" 122

General Disinfecting Componnd.. .. 122

Coffee as a Disinfectant 123

Sunflowers as Disinfectants . 128

Boiling for Infected Clothing 128

Soaking for Foul Clothing 12*

Boiling after Disinfection 12*

Carbolic Acid for Clothing 124

How to Fumigate Rooms 124

To Disinfect Water-closets 194

To Disinfect Dead bodies 128

Comparative PermaUent Value of Differ-
ent Disinfectants 125

Caution in Removing Foul Ah- from

Wells 19*

Precautions In Ventilating Infected

Rooms 12*

Heat and Steam 126

A New Disinfectant 126

SuNUOUT AND HEALTH.

Power of Sunlight 127

Seclusion from Sunlight 127

Philosophy of the Influence of Sun-
light .. 127

Sunlight and Plants 127

Sunlight and Domestic Animals 127

Sunlight and Human Life 128

Another Testimony 128

Sunlight and .Miners 129

Paralysis cured by Sunlight 129

Neuralgia, Rheumatism, and Hypochon-

ria, Cured by Sunshine 129

Florence Nightingale on Sunlight 129

Sunlight Shut out by Parasols 1*0

The Sunlight and the Blinds 1*0

The Sun brings Flies 1*1

Sunlight and Sleep 181

Sunlight and Care 181

Give the Children Sunlight 181

Sunlight in the School-room 182

The "Solaries" of the Ancients 189

Sunlight and Digestion—an Illustration. 139

Care or The Eves.

Strange Neglect of the Eyes 184

How the Eye Is Kept Clean 185

llow the Eye is Protected from Irrita-
tion 1*5

How to Improve the Eyelashes 1*5

Overstraining the Eyes 185

Eye Strain sometimes the Cause of Head-
ache 18*

Danger of Too Continuous Use 186

Proper Distance of the Object 186

Proper Quantity of Light. 186

Best Direction of the Light 187

The Use of Colored Glasses 187
Relieving Near and Far-sightedness.... 187
Changing Light not a Cause for Alarm . 183

Use Glasses as Soon as Needed 188

Donble Glasses sometimes useful 133

Squinting and Its Remedy 183

Near-Sightednoss in Children 189

How to Remove Foreign Bodies from

the Eye 189

•* Eye Stones," or Grain of Flaxseed for

the Eve 139

"'Wild Hairs" 189

"Cataract "in the Eye 189

Color-Blindness 189

Color-Blindness Explained 139

The Question of Color-Blindiiess import-
ant "0

Cure of Co!or-lllindneas 140

Medical Treatment of Color-Blindness.. HO

False Sight Explained 140

How to treat a Sty 141

Important hints Concerning Eyesight.. 141

Care or The Ear.

How Sound is Produced 142

Careful Attention and Treatment 142

Temporary Deafness 142

Insect in the Ear 143

Other Small Bodies in the Ear. 143

Fungus in the Ear 143

Remedy for Fungus 148

Sinking in the Ear 143

Remedies for Earaches 144

Earache Relieved l>v Arnica 144

Don't Treat the Ear for Toothache 145

Don't "Box the Ears" 145

Care or The NoeE—Smelling.

The Sense of Smell 145

The Object may be Distant 146

Foreign Substances in the Nose 146

Bleeding from the Nose 146

Treatment of Excessive Nose-bleed 146

Simple Remedy for Nose'bleed 146

Catarrh of the Nose 146

Treatment of Nasal Catarrh 146

[blocks in formation]

"Toothache Curos" 150

"What to do with Decaved Teeth 151

AJtilicial Teeth 152

Care or The Hair.

Growth of the Hair 1M

How to Preserve the Hair lo2

Why Ladies are not Bald 152

Why the Hair Falls Out 152

How to Prevent the Hair from Foiling

Out 152

"Organic Baldness" Incurable 158

"Functional" Baldness Curable 158

How to Cure Functional Baldness 153

Avoid Hair Dves 158

Cnntion in Using 'i Hair Oils" 153

A Good H«ir-dresslng 153

Value of Castor Oil for the Hair 158

A Preparation of Glycerine and Rose-
water Recommended 154

Relative Value of Other Oil Preparations 154
How to Prevent the Hair from Turning

Gray 154

Washing the Hair with Sodn-Water Re-
lieves Headache . 154

Sudden Changes in the Color of the Hair 154

A Remarkable Case In Berlin 154

A Remarkable Case in Rotterdam 155

Sudden Changes ot'Coloi Without Fright 155

Utility of Beards..... 155

To Remove Dandrutr 156

Cap.e or The Feet.

Warm Feet Essential to Health 156

How to Cure tho Habit of Cold Feet.... 156

How to Sleep with Warm Feet 156

Waking Up with Cold Feet 156

To Keep the Feet Dry 157

Short and High-heeled Shoes 157

Cause of Chilblains 157

To Cure Chilblains 157

How to Prevent, and How to Remove,

Corns 158

Cause of Ingrowing Toe-Nail 159

Remedies for Ingrowing Nails 159

Remedy for Blistered Feet 160

Bunions 160

To Cure Frosted Feet 160

Treatment of Scalded Feet 160

Care or The Skin.

Use of the Skin 160

Color of the Skin 161

The Pores of the Skin 161

Keeping the Skin Clean 162

Diseases of the Skin—Warts 162

Grading the Skin 162

To Remove Warts 168

Chapped Lips and Hands 164

Freckles 164

Tan and Sunburn 164

Canso and Cure of Molea 164

Pimples and Sorea 164

Bathing And Health.

Bathing In Ancient Times 165

The object of the Ancient Bath 165

The Bath a Public Benefit 165

Fresh and Sail-Water limbing 166

Bathing at the Sea-side 166

Tonic Value of Sea side Air 166

A Caution In Sea-side Buttling 166

Tent at Crowded Sea-side Resorts 167

Season for Sea-Bathing 167

Duration of the Sea Bath 167

Proper Limitation of Sea-Bathing 167

Plans* Bathing 168

Surf Bathing 168

Best Hour of the Day for Bathing 168

Condition of the Body Before Bathing.. 1U8
Helpful Accessories to Bathing Exercise 168

Avoid Exposure 169

Bathing Indoors 169

Benefit of a "Towel Bath" 169

Temperature of Baths 169

The Best Bath for Children 169

Turkish and Russian Batlia 170

Medicated Baths 170

Convenient Vapor Baths 170

Electric Baths 170

Hot 'and Baths 170

Bathing Dresses 171

Twenty-two Brief Uinta to Bathers 171

Sleep And Health.

Sleep a Necessity 172

What Sleep will Cure 178

How we go to Sleep 178

Position During Sleep 178

Why High Pillows are Injurious ITS

Bleeping on the Back or Side. Which? 174
Evil Effects of Sleeping Exclusively on

One Side. 174

Amount of Sleep Necessary 174

Testimony of an Experienced Farmor... 174

Waking Children 175

Best Hours for Sleeping 175

Kiss the Children a "Happy Good Night" 175

The Great Pleasure of Sleep 175

Sleeping Alone 176

Are Feather Beds Unhealthful? 176

In What Direction shall the Bed Stand? 176

Sleep for the Invalid 176

Lack of Sleep Causes Leanness 176

Sleeplessness—How to Prevent it 178

Sleeplessness—How to Cure it 178

An Eminent Clergyman's Advice 179

Blumberat Will 180

Sleep Procured by Medicine 180

-A Pillow for the Sleepless" 180

Sleeping Hints 181

Short Sleepet's 181

Living Without Sleep 181

Curious Cases of Long Sleeping 182

Sott or Haid Beds. Which? 1S2

Warm or Cold Sleeping-rooms. Which? 188
Thorough Ventilation of Sleeping-rooms 188

Time Required for Airing Beds. 188

Dreamhtg anil Sonnambulism 188

P».i»

The Cause of Nightmare. 183

Snoring, and How to Stop it 184

Am Plants in Sleeping-rooms Injurious? 1S5
Plants give out Carbonic Acid During

the Night 188

Flowering Plants More Injurious than

Others 186

Plants Exhale Other Noxious Substtuues lng
Sleep and Death 186

Clothing And Health.

Most Healthful Clothing 187

Flannel in Summer as well as Winter... Is7

Best Color for Clothing 187

Texture of Clothing should not be Close 188

Evil of Insufficient Clothing 138

Evil of Low-necked Dress 188

High-heeled Boots and Shoes 188

Newspapers as Protectors from Cold... 189

Warm Clothing for the Feet ISO

Frequent Change of Clothing for the

Feet 189

How to Wear Underclothing. 190

B.id Effects from Usiug ''Garters" 190

Muffling the Throat 190

Kemove Wet Clothing. 190

Poisonous Clothing—Gloves 191

Other Cases of Glove-Poisoning 191

Poisonous Socks 191

Other Poisonous Clothing. 191

How to Avoid such Poisoning 191

How to Cure such Clothing 192

How to Protect the Public from such

Clothing 192

Injurious Dress of Many School-Girls.. 192
How Fashionahle Dress Interferes with

Education 192

Increasing Demand for Healthy Clothing 198
The Tyranny of Fashion 193

Tlont-LAOINQ AND HEALTH—IlIPOr.TA.NT

Testimont.

Physical Effects of Tight-pressing Gar-
ments 194

Effect on Respiration 194

Effect on Size 194

Investigations by Herbst. 194

High Medical Tesfmony 194

Case Reported by the "British Medical

Journal" 195

Tight Lncing Pollutes the Blood 195

Weak and Silly Excuses Described 196

Tight Lacing and General Weakness... 197

Absurdity of Tight Lacing. 197

The General Question Illustrated 198

[merged small][ocr errors]

Paoi

Early Walking and Its Value 205

How to M.ike the Walk most Healthful 204
Walking Combined with Useful Investi-
gation 2(4

In Walking the Dress should be Loose.. 204

Walk Untramnleled 205

Kuect of Tight Lacing on Walking 205

Exercise for Delicate Women 205

Wear the Right Kind of Shoes 205

Kxerciso a Cure for Many Diseases..... 206
Exercise "About the House" Not

Enough 206

Exercise by Bale Firmly Observed 2<>6

Exercise as a Cure for Low Spirit* 206

Abuse of Physical Exerclso 207

Falm Criticism coucerning Exercise An-
swered 207

Hiding and Kowing, and other kinds of

Exercise 203

Swiutming as Exercise 208

Crying, LAConiNO, And Singing.

Crying and Health 209

Laughing and Health 209

The Lnughlng Cure 200

Physical Influence of Singing 201)

Ago for Vocal Training 210

Occupations And Health—Vital Statis-
Tics.

Mental I.nbor and Health. An Illustra-
tion 211

There are Hundreds of Similar Cases... 211
Average Longevity of Diverse Aveca-

tions 212

Order of Mortality In Certain Classes of

Manual Labor.: 212

Comparati ve Ages of Persons Active in

Business 212

Vital Statistics— Births 218

Vital Statistics—Marriages 218

Vital Stalistlcs— Deaths 213

Expectation of Human Life 218

Dwellings And Health.

Importance of a Healthful Location ... 214

Remove from a Foul District 215

Location of Dwellings In Cities 215

Shade Trees around our Dwellings 215

High Ceilings and Health 215

Capacity of Bricks for Dampness 215

Damp Wailsand their Relation to Health 216

Dampness of Other Walls.... 216

Why Damp Walls are Injurious 2Hi

How to Dry Damp Walls 217

ifow to Prevent Walls from Becoming
Damp. A Successful Experiment.... 217

Damp Closets and Health 218

Caution Against Damp Floors 218

How to Make Dry Cellar Floors 218

Danger from Vegetables in Cellars 218

Pam

Danger from Wetting Coal In Cellars... 218

Sitting-rooms and Bedrooms and Health 213

The Kitchen Sink and Health 219

Ripe Fruit in Sitting or Sleeping-rooms 219

The Out door Parts of the House 219

House Cisterns and Health 220

How to Remedv Ihe Evil of Bad Cisterns 220

"Death In the Dishcloth" 220

Secure General House Sanitary Inspec-
tion 221

School-rooms And Health.

Near-sightedness in Schools 222

An Alarming Fact. 222

I How to Remedy the Evil 228

How the Evils are Caused. 823

Care Op Children.

Early Food of Children.... , 224

Changes of Early Diet—Weaning 225

Best Rule as U> the Exact Time for

Weaning 225

Arrangement of Regular Meals for Chil-
dren 225

Is the Mother's Health Injured by Nurs-
ing? 22S

The Mother's Food while Nursing 226

A Common Artificial Food Condemned. 226

Enrlv Baths for Children 226

Early Clothing for Children 226

Early Sleep of Children 226

Shall Children be Rocked to Sleep ? .... 227
Shall Feather Pillows be Used for Ba-
bies' Heads? 227

Babies' Bow'legs and How to Prevent

them 223

Babies' Knock-knees, and How to Pre-
vent them 223

How to Care for Children's Feet. 228

Eaily Exercise for Children 223

Giving' Spirits or Cordials to Babies 228

Are Candies Healthful for Children?.... 228

Children in the Care of Servants 22s

Lack of Appetite in Children 229

Age, Studies, and Habits of Childreu at
School 229

[merged small][ocr errors]

1'agr

Evil of an Indistinct Voice 282

How to Move a Patient 283

Great Tenderness of Manner Required.. 233
Heat and Ventilation in the Sick-Rooin. 238

Cleanliness and Neatness 234

Directions in Contagious Sickness 234

Important Qualities of a Good Nurse.284
Twenty-one Brief Suggestions to Nurse 235

Alcohol And Health.

Alcohol cannot be Classed as Food 286

Liebig's Testimony 286

Dr. Richardson's and Prof. Silliman's

Testimony 286

Alcohol Not the Source of Physical

Force 237

Similar Testimony from Others 287

Does Aloho! Help Digestion? 237

Alcohol Useless in Nearly All Cases 287

A Distinguished Surgeon Uses Alcohol

in only One Case out of Fifty 287

Patients Require Food rather than Stim-
ulants 233

Careless Use of Alcohol Dangerous 288

Alcohol a Brain Poison 283

Alcoholic Rheumatism 239

How Alcoholic Drinks Cause Apoplexy 289
No Risk in Disusing Alcohol Suddenly.. 289
Physicians should Promote Abstinence. 239

Testimony of t Great Surgeon 240

Inconsiderate Prescription of Liquors by
Physicians—Testimony of 300 Lead-
ing Physicians 240

General Physiological Effects of Alcohol 240
Alcoholic Drinks Greatly Shorten Life,. 241

Interesting Liu strati ve Statistics 241

Table Showing the Comparative Expec-

tatlon of Life for Drinkers 241

"iave Lone

242

[merged small][ocr errors]

Effects of Tobacco on the System 248

Another Testimony 248

Other Testimonials 249

Tobacco Specially Harmful to the Young 249

Tobacco and Paralysis 249

Tobacco and Karly Physical "Weakness.. 250

Tobacco Pollutes the Atmosphere 250

The Tobacco Appetite Often Hereditary 250
The Excuses of Tobacco Users Trivial.. 250

Smoking Worse than Chewing 250

Tobacco in the Form of Snuff 251

"But I Can't Quit It" 251

Testimony of John Q. Adams 251

Great Extent of the Tobacco Habit . 251

OpItTM-EATCiG AND HlCALTET.

Powerful Effects of Opium 252

Symptoms of Opium Poisoning 252

Treatment of Poison by Opium 252

Opium Chewing 252

Symptoms of Opium Chewing 252

Treatment for Cure 258

[ocr errors]

Why Some Liquor-drinkers have Long

Lives «r»

Alcoholic Intemperance Hereditary 242

Darwin Confirms this View 248

Hereditary Drunkenness Illustrated.. 242
Great Peril in Using Alcohol as Medi-
cine 248

Sad Results of Prescribing Alcohol 243

Fruitless Efforts for Recovery 244

The Victim^ Sorrowful Experience 244

Dr. Rush's Noble Testimony 244

Drinking Paroxysms: Periodic Attacks 245
The Excuse for these Periodic Parox-
ysms 245

Sudden End of the Drinking Paroxysms 245
How Alcohol Injures the Physical Sys-
tem 246

Patent "Bitters" are Strong Liquors

Drugged 246

Patent "Bitters" the Worst Form of Al-
cohol 246

"Cure of Drunkenness".. 246

The "Tapering-off System" Exploded.. 247
Treatment of inebriates In Delirium

Tremens 247

What to Avoid 247

Climate And Hkalth.

Time Required for Completo Change of

. Body

The Philosophy of Acclimation Ex-
plained 258

Effects of Drv and Moist Climates 803

Remarkable Facts Incident to a Moist

Climate 254

Influence of Climate upon National Char-
acteristics 254

Influence of Trees upon Climate 254

Effects of Water upon Climate 254

How to Relieve Certain Malarious Dis-
tricts 255

Evil Effect of Sudden Transitions In

Climate 255

Are Frequent Rains Beneficial? 255

Temperament And Health.

Varieties of Physical Temperament 256

Sanguine Temperament 256

Bilious Temperament 256

lymphatic Temperament. 256

Encephalic Temperament 256

Nervous Temperament 257

Precautions And Health.
Eating, Sleeping, and Speaking—Simple

Precaution 257

Danger from Wet Clothes 253

Danger from Cosmetics 258

Danger from Lamp Explosions 258

How to Test Dangerous Kerosene 258

Caution in Cleaning Wells 258

Caution Concerning the Tea-pot 259

Caution about Laughing Gas 259

Caution Concerning lee-Cream 269

[ocr errors]

Caution In Carrying Lead Pencils MB

Visiting Infected Rooms 260

D;uigerons Medicines 2C0

Duntrerous Medicines — Two Good

Rales 260

Mintakes in Prescription ^60

Using Medicines as Stimulants—Dan-
ger. 260

How to Escape Fever Infections 261

Fever Infections—Avoid the Poison.... 261

Fever Infection—Ventilation 261

Fever Infection—Avoid Absorbing It.. 261

Fever Infection and Flannel 262

Fever Infection and Fear 26a

Poisonous Soap 262

Death from Nicotine 262

Poison of Quinces 263

Orange Peel Poisonous 263

Danger in Carrying Friction Matches .. 868

Care Concerning Poisonous Candles 268

Death from Chloroform 26*

Care Concerning IceCream 264

Danger of Green-Colored Materials— 264

How to Detect Arsenic in Colors 265

Be Cautious of Poisonous Vegetables .. 260

Antidotes For Poisons— Hydrophobia.

Animals Affected by Hydrophobia 26B

Period of Development 266

Symptoms of Hydrophobia 266

Treatment of Hydrophobia 266

Antidotes For Poisons— 8nAke-bites And
Insects.

"What Snakes are Poisonous 267

Symptoms of Snake Poison 268

Antidotes for Snake-bltea 268

Jtites of Venomous Insects 268

Treatment of Insect Bites \ 268

Antidotes For Poisons—Miscellaneous.

Poison Ivy and Oak: Remedies 269

Lead Poisoning . 269

Antidotes for Lead Poisoning 270

Poisoning by the Filling of Teeth 270

Poisoning by Wall Paper 270

Phosphorus Poisoning 270

Poisoning by Opium 270

How to Act When Poison hua been
Swallowed 270

Emergencies—How To Meet Them.

Loss of Blood a Heal Loss 271

Bleeding from Veins 271

Bleeding from Arteries 272

Bleeding from the Teeth 27:i

Rupture of a Lanre Blood-Vessel 272

Fracture of the Skull 27;!

rVthd Fainting, and Its Belief 272

Apparent IuseiwIbUlty 27*

Complete Unconsciousness, and Its Rem-
edy 278

Dislocation, and its Treatment 278

Sprains and bow to Cure Them 278

Fracture of the Collar-bone 278

Fracture of the Ribs 278

Dislocations 274

Clothing on Fire—Presence of Mind

Needed 271

Clothing on Fire—What to do 274

To Prevent Clothing from Taking Fire . 274

Cures for Lock-jaw." 274

Relief fmra Choking 274

Frost Bites—Instant Remedy 275

General Treatment for Burns and

Scalds.. 276

Cut Wounds—How to flea) quickly 276

How to Relieve Pain from Wounds 277

Pain from Nail In the Foot 277

Sunstroke—its History 277

Sunstroke does not Follow Short Ex-
posure 277

Most Dangenmt Time for Sunstroke ... 277
Premonitory Symptom* of Sunstroke 277
Hints for the Prevention of Sunstroke.. 278

Treatment of Sunstroke 278

Treatment of Sunstroke after Recovery . 273
Lightning Stroke: Preliminary Dangers 279

Apeplexy: Nature and Cause. 279

Treatment of Apoplexy 280

How to Treat Delirious Patients 280

Convulsions, and How to Stop Them... 280

Emergencies—Drowning.

What to do in Case of Drowning 281

To Restore Breathing 281

To Restore Circulation 284

Recovery Twelve Hours After Drown-
ing...' 28fi

How to bring a Drowning Person to
Shore 285

Emergencies—Fractures.
Definitions and Illustrations 284

Poultices And Their Application.
General Purpose of a Poultice 287

Brief Curbs For Various Diseases.

Colds—Seven Remedies 289

How to Relieve Severe Coughs—Seven

Good Recipes 2S9

Cures for Sore Throat 290

Headache 291

Indigestion and Dyspepsia 291

Biliousness 292

Diarrhoea and Dysenteiy 298

Constipation 294

Cures for Bids 290

Pack

To Prevent and Cure Ulcers 295

Felons 295

Cancers 296

Treatment of Scabies 297

Whooping-Cough 297

Croup 295

Hay-fever—Class of Persons Affected... 299

Hay-fever, Causes 299

Hay-lever—Localities Most Affected 299

Remedies for Hay-lever 800

Eruptive Fevers 900

Bvmptoms and Preventives of Fever ... 300

Belief of Sea-sickness 800

To Avoid Sea-sickness 801

Temporary Relief for Neuralgia. 801

Cure of Stammering 801

Miscellaneous Health Notes.

Pine Woods and Health 801

Danger of Cold Water in tbe Face 801

A Most Refreshing Baih 801

To Prevent Harm from Drinking Cold

Water 801

How to Avoid Pneumonia 802

Position After Being Tired 802

Opening Abscesses Under Water 802

Pie-crust and Dyspepsia 802

Little Things and Health 802

Guarding Against Diphtheria 802

Eating at Certain Intervals 802

Time Required for Digesting Food 802

Cold or Warm Drinks 802

To Remove Bitter Taste 808

Most Healthful Seat in a Car 808

Causes of Lung Congestion 803

Spread of Pestilence 808

Sewing Machines and Health 808

A Specific for Scrofula 308

Suggestion to Parents about Sitting 803

Improper Sitting and its Evils 804

Chewing Between Meals 804

Remedy for Feverishness 804

Cause and Cure of Leanness 804

Cure of Obesity 804

Chief Causes of Sudden Death 805

Healthfulneee of Pumpkins 805

Medical Qualities of Pumpkins 805

To Keep White Hands 805

A Good Tooth-wash 306

To Remove Moth from the Face 806

Pimples on the Face 806

To Strengthen the Hair 806

To Cool a Room 806

Protection from Damp Walls 806

To Makes Good Court-Plaster 806

To Relieve Whoopltg-cough 806

Diphtheria—Its Symptoms 806

Cause of Diphtheria 806

Treatments of Diphtheria 306

Infection Carried by Pet Animals 807

Flies as Poison Carriers 807

To Prevent After-taste of Quinine 803

Inflation of the Lungs 808

Diet for Dyspep'ws 808

Home Economics.

Waste In the Kitchen 8o»

^ClTCHEN FUENITTjEK.—CLEANING.

Heating New Iron 310

To Prevent Crust In Tea-kettles 810

To Clean Tea-kettles 8ln

Glass 811

Glass Vessels 811

To Clean Coal-oil Cans 811

Washing Knives and Forks 811

To Clean Knives 31'.

Scouring Knives 811

To Extract Stains from Silver 811

Silver Soap 811

To Clean Silver 811

Another Method of Cleaning Silver 811

Cleaning Tinware 311

To Clean Tin Covers 811

To Polish Tins 812

Papier-mache Articles 812

Japanned Ware 81'2

Cleaning Flour Boards 812

Another Method . 812

To Clean Painted Wainscot 812

Cleaning Old Brass 812

To Clean a Brass Kettle 312

To Clean Brasses, Britannia Metals, Etc., 312

To Keep Iron from Rusting 312

Paper for Cleaning Stoves, Tinware, Etc., 313

Cleansing Bottles 818

Soaps And Washing Fluids.

Hard Soap 818

Soft Soap 818

Excellent Soft Soap 818

Common Hard Soap 818

Labor-saving Soap 814

Honey Soap 814

Using Soap 814

Suggestions 814

Washing Fluid 814

To Make Hard Water Soft 814

To Clear Muddy Water 814

Washing Clothes.'

To Clean a White Lace Veil 815

To Wash Fine, Colored Fabrics 815

To Wash Merino Stockings 815

To Make Colors Stand in Delicate Hose. 315

To Wash Chintz 8!.'.

Washing Prints 815

Another 815

To Make Use of Faded Prints 816

Cleansing Blankets Sir.
To Wash Flannel ...., 816

Restoring White Flannel 816

Washing Woolen Clothing 816

To Wash Table-linen 81«

To Preserve Clothes-pins 817
Starching, Folding, And Ironing.

Pah*

To Prepare Starch jJJ

Flmir Starch 3J J

Glue Starch *817

Gum-arabic Starch Wlj

Starching Clothes 8'J

Sprinkling Clothes 817

Folding Clothes » i

Gloss for Linen 817

To Make Flat-irons Smooth 818

Another 813

To Preserve Irons from Rust 81b

To Kepiove Starch or P.ust from Flat-
irons 318

Ironing 818

Starching—Clear-starching, Etc 818

To Clear-starch Lace, Etc 818

Ironing Luces 819

Removing Status.

Grease Spots.. 819

Stains from Acids 819

'Wine Stains 819

Iron Rust 819

To Take Out Scorch 819

Mildewed Linen 819

To Remove Mildew 819

Another Method 320

Coffee Stains 320

Grass Stains 820

Tea Stains 320

Medicine Stains 820

Fruit Stains 820

Fruit Stains on Table-linen 320

Fruit and Wine Stains 820

Ink Stains 820

To Take Marking-ink Out or Linen 820

Ink in Cotton, Silk, and Woolen Goods. 820

Ink Stains in Mahogany 320

Ink Stains on Silver 320

Ink and Iron-mould 821

To Remove Stains from Floors 821

To Preserve Steel Goods from Rust 821

To Remove Paint Stains on Windows.. 821

Stains on the Hands 821

To Preserve Polished Iron Work 821

If Rust 821

To Kxtract Grease Spots from Books ... 322

Removing Tar Spots 822

Ammonia for Renovation 822

Removing Grease from Silk 822

Removing Grease from Coat Collars 822

To Restore Crape 822

To Clean Furs 822

To IVeserve Furs 828

To t'lean Velvet 828

To Restore Silk 828

Wrinkled Silk 823

lo Bleach White Silks or Flannels 828

To Clean White Ostrich Feathers 823

To Clean Feathers 828

To Make Cloth Waterproof 828

To Clean Black Cloth 328

Cleaning Silk and Merinos 324

To Color Kid Gloves 824

To Clean Kid Gloves 824

Washing Kid Gloves 824

To Kxtract Grease from Paptred Walls. 824
To Clean Wall Paper 824

Whitewashing And Painting.

Cracks in Plastering 824

To Fill Holes in Walls .824

Brilliant Zinc Whitewash 32f t

Cheap Whitewash 325

Making Paper Stick to Whitewashed

Walls 825

New Recipe for Whitewash 82ft

A Brilliant Stucco Whitewash 82ft

To Color and Prevent Whitewash from

Rubbing Off • 82ft

Paint for Kitchen Walls 828

Fire and Water-Proof Paint 82b

POLISBTNO FOKSITtTKK.

French Naphtha Polish 82(5

French Spirit Polish .. 320

Polish or Mahogany Color 32ri

Simplest Polish for Oiled Furniture 32.i

Oil lor Red Furniture 820

Polish for Oil and Alcohol 82ij

Polish for Leather Cushions, etc 326

To Give a Fine Color to Cherry-Tree

Wood **I

To Stain Black Walnut 827

Imitation Ebony stain 8-'7

To Ebonlze Vanous Woods 827

Water and Varnished Furniture 827

Cleansing Polish for Furniture 827

Where and How to Varnish 828

Varnish for Unpainted Wood 828

Blacking for St'.ves 828

Brunswick Black for Varnishing Grates. S'.'8

To Clean Bronzed Chandeliers, etc 828

For Cleaning Brasses Belonging to Furni-

ture 828

To Clean Sinks 828

Articles Fob The Toilet.

Rose Oil 829

Cologne Water 829

To Wash Hair Brushes 329

A Paste for Sharpening Razors 829

Shaving Cream 829

To Curl Hair 829

To Remove Tight Rings 829

Rose Lip-Salve 880

Birds And Bird-food.

To Distinguish Canaries 830

Place for Cages :«*f

Size of Cage Perches 330

Food #ar Canary Birds 88H

[ocr errors]

Paor

Care of Young Canaries MO

Parasite* upon Canaries 881

To Destroy Parasites 881

Food lor Mocking'Birds 881

To Distinguish Thrushes—Food 881

euro of Young Thrushes 881

Food of Bullfinches 8S1

Care of Young Bullfinches 8*2

Linnets and Their Food 882

Blackbirds and Their Food 882

To Distinguish Skylarks 882

The Cages of Skylarks *82

Food of Skylarks 882

KuLra ron Carvino.

Carving Knives 888

Orvh g Dishes • »d8

To Carve a fowl 88'j

To Carve a ''Fillet" 888

To Carve a Bound of Beef 888

To Carve a Sirloin 888

To Carve a Leg 888

To Carve a l'ig 888

To Carve a Calf's Head 888

To Carve a Saddle of Mutton 888

Fagi

To Carve s Spare-Rib 888

To Carve Fish 834

Order of Serving 884

» Paste And Cemknts.

P.lce Flour Cement 884

Paste l hat will Keep a Year 884

Liquid Glue 884

To Prevent Glue from Smelling Badly.. 8*5

Cement for Iron aud Stone 888

Diamond Cement 835

Cement for Metal and Glass 888

Glue for Uniting Card-Board, etc 886

A Cement Withstanding Heat and Moisture 885

Cement for Crockery %.. 885

To Make Compound Glue 886

Household Ornaments.

Pretty Hanging Ornaments 886

Pretty Mantel Ornaments 886

Kules for Arranging Cut Flowers 887

To Crvstallize Grasses 88T

To lake Leaf Impressions 833

l-ockeries, Vases, and Hanging'Basket*. 888

I

[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[merged small][graphic][merged small]
[ocr errors]
