[graphic]
[merged small][graphic][merged small][merged small][graphic]
[ocr errors]
[merged small][ocr errors]

Executive Secretary Social Insurance Committee, American
Medical Association; Author "Social Insurance,"
"Standard Accident Table," etc.; Lecturer on Social
Insurance, N. Y. School of Philanthropy, 1912-
1915; President Casualty Actuarial and Sta-
tistical Society of America

BY

[graphic][merged small]
[graphic]

Harvard University,
Dept. of Social Ethics,

•366**119 CQLLfSf U«MS?

jj. At

COPTEIQHT, ltlS
BY

HENRY HOLT AND COMPANY
Published September, 1918

[ocr errors]

PREFACE

The time appears ripe for a comprehensive study in English of European
experience with sickness insurance, but the little book offered to the readers
does not pretend to meet this need. Its purpose is a very much more modest one.

The movement for sickness or health insurance in this country has been growing
so rapidly within the last few months that there appears to be a demand for a
brief and popular, though scientifically sound, discussion of the essential
principles underlying it and the various provisions which go to make a
successful health insurance scheme; and without many excursions into the
domains of statistics of history, this book endeavors to cover this particular
field.

The subject-matter has largely appeared in the Journal of Political Economy for
March, April, and May, 1915, but in that form has reached a very limited circle
only. Some new additional material was added that had to be omitted from the
original articles because of considerations of limited space.

The articles appeared originally under the title of "Standards of Sickness
Insurance," but within the last few months, largely due to the decision of the
Social Insurance Committee of the American Association for Labor Legislation,
the term " Health Insurance" has obtained wider publicity, and it was decided
to accept the new term in this study. There were largely three considerations
which influenced the Social Insurance Committee in favor of the term "Health
Insurance" rather than "Sickness ":

First.—The term "Health Insurance" has been adopted and has been in use for
some time by commercial insurance companies.

Second.—It seemed, in the opinion of the committee, to emphasize the preventive
character of the measure.

Third.—It has the weight of British precedent behind it.

The last consideration may not be altogether a fortunate one, because, as will
appear to the reader of these pages, the scheme suggested on the whole
approaches the German system much more closely than the British one and the
shortcomings in the workings of the British system have been frequently pointed
out in this book. Health Insurance plans at present before the people of this
country should not be judged too harshly by some experiences under the British
precedent.

It is very difficult to find a purely logical argument for the selection of
either term. There is no one guiding principle in designating various branches
of insurance. In some branches the person, object, or condition insured, and
again in others the hazard insured against, serve as a designating term. Thus
we speak on one hand of workmen's insurance, or life insurance, or plate-glass
insurance, or health insurance, where the term is based upon either the person
(workman), or condition (health or life), or object (plate glass) insured, but
we also speak on the other hand, of fire, burglary, accident insurance, etc. An
arbitrary decision, therefore, seems justified.

I am under great obligations to Prof. Joseph P. Chamberlain, of the Legislative
Drafting Bureau of Columbia University, for his kindness in preparing the
valuable chapter discussing the "Constitutionality of Health Insurance "; to
Dr. Alexander Lambert, Chairman of the Social Insurance Committee of the
American Medical Association, for his permission to use his report on "
Organization of Medical Aid "; to the Journal of Political Economy for
permission to reproduce articles which have appeared in that publication, and
to Mr. Solon De Leon, of the American Association for Labor Legislation, for
his careful reading of the proofs of the entire book.

June, 1916. I. M. R.

CONTENTS

CHAPTEB PAOB

I Inteoductoey 1

II The Peinciple Of Compulsion . . 18

III Extent Of Health Insueance . 29

IV The Scope Of Health Insueance . 43

— V Medical Benefits .... 67\"

VI Money Benefit .... 94

VII Mateenity Benefit . . . .116

VIII Funeeal Benefit .... 140

IX Optional Benefits .... 146^.

Bearing The Cost .... 153 ,

XI Disteibution Of Cost .... 168

XII Organization Of Insueance . . 178

XIII Administeative Oeganization . . 204

XIV Financial Oeganization . . . 214

XV Oeganization Of Medical Aid . . 232

XVI Estimates Of Cost .... 260

Appendix I Constitutionality Of Health

Insueance 275

By Joseph P. Chamberlain.

Appendix II Oeganization Of Medical Aid 295

By Alexander Lambert, M.D.

Index • 313

STANDARDS OF HEALTH
INSURANCE

I

INTRODUCTORY

With the rapid conquest of public opinion over popular prejudices in matters of
employers' liability, the United States stands committed to the policy of
social insurance. Without exaggeration this is the most significant advance in
the social policy of this country during the last two decades, and the speed of
progress is a very noteworthy feature. Considering the enormous amount of
legislative work required the progress made by the workmen's compensation
movement since 1908 is amazing.

On May 30 of that year, the U. S. Congress, urged on by President Roosevelt,
passed the first American compensation act, narrowly limited to a small
minority of the employees of the Federal Government, and pathetically
inadequate in its benefit provisions. Two years later, the first general state
compensation act was adopted by the legislature of the State of New York, and
soon was declared unconstitutional. The first state act to remain in force went
into effect in New Jersey on July 4, 1911. But on January 1, 1916, thirty-three
states and territories had compensation acts in force. Of the remaining states
a good many are in process of passing or preparing their acts; only in the
solid South may a few states he found in which no movement toward abandoning
employers' liability has been started. But the acts of Maryland, Kentucky, and
West Virginia in the north, Louisiana in the south, and Oklahoma and Texas in
the west are a significant indication that at least in this branch of labor
legislation the "solid South" is solid no longer.

Undoubtedly a good many, perhaps most, of the acts are far from granting all
that may be expected of a fair and just system'of workmen's compensation. The
radical changes already made in many of the acts, as, for instance, those of
California, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin,
notwithstanding the very short experience with the original enactments, show
that the whole matter of compensation is as yet in the formative stage. But the
principle itself is practically accepted without further discussion. The
shortcomings of the acts are easily explained by lack of familiarity, on the
part of all social groups concerned, with the problems at issue. Surely in no
other way can be explained the complacent acceptance by the wageworkers of such
preposterously inadequate laws as, e.g., those of New Jersey, Colorado, or
Pennsylvania.

The flood of literature on compensation has not

[ocr errors]

subsided, but has acquired a deeper character. Instead of agitation, there is
inquiry; instead of popular articles, specialized technical studies. Already
the formation of the Casualty Actuarial and Statistical Society of America has
furnished a new important medium for the scientific study of statistical and
insurance problems of compensation which were scarcely recognized three or four
years ago.1 With this issue practically settled, at least in principle, the
attention of the progressive student in social legislation may be centered upon
other correlated problems.

Already, the first steps have been taken toward creating a sentiment in favor
of other branches of social insurance. The First American Conference on Social
Insurance, held in Chicago in June, 1913; the establishment of a department of
social insurance in the Survey; the preparations for the International Congress
on Social Insurance in Washington (unfortunately abandoned because of the
outbreak of the Great War) ; the creation of a Social Insurance Commission in
California in 1915—all these are symptoms of the new movement. Health insurance
was one of the main subjects of discussion before the meeting of the American
Association for Labor Legislation in Washington in December, 1913, and again in
December, 1915. Old-age pensions and insurance have been thoroughly discussed
in official reports in Massa

1 See Proceedings of the Casualty Actuarial and Statistical Society of America,
Vol. I, 1914-15; Vol. II, 1915-16.

chusetts and Wisconsin; unemployment insurance was emphasized in the recent
conferences of the American Association for Labor Legislation held in New York
in March, 1914, and in Philadelphia in December, 1914. And scarcely any of the
numerous unemployment commissions created during the winters of 1913 and 1914
failed to point at compulsory unemployment insurance as at least a partial
remedy. How far mothers' pension laws technically constitute an extension of
social insurance methods, is still a question calling forth heated discussion
among students and advocates of social legislation in this country. But
whatever the technical aspect of these laws, whatever even their social
efficiency, it must be admitted that the adoption of acts of this character by
twenty-odd states within the last two or three years is an important victory
for the principle of "Soziale Fiirsorge " or " Prevoyance Sociale " which
underlies the entire social insurance jovement.

It is impossible to prophesy with certainty which one of these branches of
social insurance will be the next one to be taken up seriously by American
legislatures. A good deal often depends upon sudden development of popular
interest or social pressures; witness, for instance, the very wide interest
displayed by organized labor and the Socialist party in the National Old Age
Pension Bill introduced by the first Socialist Congressman Victor L. Berger, or
the national excitement over the problem of unemployment in the winter of 1914,
under the influence of the picturesque efforts of the I.W.W. to invade the
churches of New York City. But a normal development of the social-insurance
principle would seem to demand that the next step be taken in the domain of
health insurance.

Several reasons for this may be mentioned. Admittedly unemployment insurance
presents many technical difficulties which even in Europe have delayed its
development.

As yet the British experience of two or three years is the only fountain of
information to be drawn upon. It is recognized by all students of unemployment
insurance that its success absolutely depends upon a comprehensive network of
public employment offices or labor exchanges, and it is urged by many that
these be established and roughly organized before the more complicated problems
of insurance are undertaken.

In the problem of old-age provision we are necessarily confronted by the
antagonism (perhaps more seeming than real) between the principle of insurance
and the principle of gratuitous governmental pensions, which will delay
legislative action for some time, especially in view of the growing popularity
of the pension principle among organized workers. No such serious difficulties
prevent the development of health-insurance legislation.

The precedents, not only of continental Europe, but of Great Britain as well,
offer a reasonable argument. There is a material basis for legislation in the
existence of voluntary health-insurance organizations of various types, and in
the abuses discovered in connection with a certain type of commercial health
insurance.

The practical application of the various: compensation acts has brought to the
surface the difficulty of differentiating between industrial accident and
occupational disease, and between the latter and simple illness. The extension
of the concept of industrial accident to all physical injuries (whether
traumatic or pathologic) in several acts through legislative intent or judicial
construction has pointed the way to general health insurance as the only way of
meeting the problems arising from these difficulties of drawing the hard and
fast line between accident and disease.

But perhaps the most important consideration is the quantitative one.
Professional workers of relief agencies have long recognized that sickness
represents the most frequent factor of individual destitution. The growth of
the various health and life conservation movements, the concerted attack upon
excessive child mortality, the alarming increase in diseases of middle age, and
the mortality caused by them, the increased scientific activity in the study of
industrial hygiene, all these various forms of scientific and social endeavor
have brought to light not only the social waste caused by excessive and
preventable illness but also the economic conditions which are responsible for
them. Even minimum wage legislation and the statistical inquiries undertaken in
connection with it have added eloquent evidence of the need of some systematic
social effort to protect the health of the wage-workers. The Social Insurance
Committee of the American Association for Labor Legislation, organized in 1912,
and perhaps the most influential organization in this field, was soon forced to
shift from problems of compensation to those of health insurance. Many other
committees and commissions, of relief societies, reform or industrial
organizations, and of medical societies are studying the problem and preparing
statistical material. Already bills have been introduced in the legislatures of
New York, New Jersey, and Massachusetts and perhaps other states.

In short, health insurance is at present going through the same stage which
accident compensation went through six or seven years ago. Perhaps a growth at
similar speed may reasonably be hoped for, but the same or similar difficulties
must be expected and, if possible, some of them should be prevented.

The bewildering variety of plans, systems, methods, and provisions of workmen's
compensation found in the acts already passed may be defended on the ground
that the country has been divided into so many experimental laboratories, in
which the various products of ingenuity are being tried out, with the hope that
the best plan will win in the end.

But after all it must not be forgotten that frequently it is a very painful
process of human vivisection, and that many of these experiments are so

poorly planned that it is very difficult to justify them from a scientific
point of view. Our numerous and varied compensation acts not only contain many
provisions eminently unjust, but too frequently show a very poor, almost
inexcusably faulty technique of construction. Many errors have been committed
which but repeat the errors of the early history of the compensation movement
in Europe, and others which nothing but the grossest ignorance of the
underlying problem can explain. Time and habit give sanction to the worst
errors of inefficient lawmaking, and we are perhaps farther away, at least for
the time being, from efficient uniformity in compensation legislation than we
were two or three years ago.

There seems only one way in which similar confusion in the other fields of
social insurance, as they develop in this country, may be prevented or at least
mitigated, and that is careful discussion of the basic principles during the
preliminary stages of, and side by side with, the propaganda which must prepare
the ground for legislation.

An effort is made in the following pages to sketch the outline of the basic
principles underlying a broad system of health insurance, with the hope that it
will be of some assistance to those who are trying to preach or teach it to
public opinion, or who have gone so far as to prepare drafts of legislative
enactments. In developing these principles the writer did not venture to draw
too much upon his constructive imagination, though he is ready to admit that
such " social invention," as it has been recently called, is very necessary and
perhaps essential. Whenever such " social invention " is undertaken,
immediately the land of doubt is reached and perhaps it would seem wiser and
safer not to venture into it alone. But the wealth of European experience has
already established some fairly well-defined dicta, and at least through their
study serious errors of legislation may be prevented.

It is not the intention of the writer to develop at this place a lengthy
argument in support of the basic thesis of health insurance. This has already
been done in his larger work on Social Insurance 2 and elsewhere, as well as by
many other students within the last two or three years,3 and a reference to the
works cited will furnish material for such argument. Besides, public or social
health insurance is a com

1 See especially chap, i, "The Concept of Social Insurance," and chap, xiii,
"Economic and Industrial Aspects of Disease "; see also his paper on "Sickness
Insurance," "Proceedings of the First American Conference on Social Insurance"
{American Labor Legislation Review, Vol. Ill, No. 2).

* See especially "The Practicability of Compulsory Sickness Insurance in
America," by J. P. Chamberlain (American Labor Legislation Review, Vol. IV, No.
1), and the papers read at the 9th Annual Meeting of the American Association
for Labor Legislation, held in Washington, Dec, 1915, especially "Social Cost
of Sickness," by Dr. Haven Emerson; "Organization of Medical Service," by Dr.
M. M. Davis, and "Plan for a Health Insurance Act," by Professor H. R. Seager.
Also "Health Insurance: Its Relation to the Public Health." By B. S. Warren and
E. Sydenstriker (U. S. Public Health Service, Public Health Bulletin No. 76).

plex concept, embodying numerous elements, such as compulsion, regulation,
state subsidy, etc., etc., and since the arguments for or against health
insurance (or any other measure of legislation) usually assume the form of
advocacy or criticisms of various features of the measure proposed these will
all necessarily be dealt with at some length in the discussion of individual
standards.

It may be desirable, however, for the benefit of the busy reader, who cannot
spare time to refer to other sources, to state here very briefly the essential
considerations underlying the propaganda for health insurance in this country.

1. Illness is a "risk" or "hazard," i.e., represents a possible economic loss,
which threatens every human being. Since " insurance is a provision made by a
group of persons, each singly in danger of some loss, the incidence of which
cannot be foreseen, that when such loss shall occur to any of them, it shall be
distributed over the whole group "—insurance is evidently a method well adopted
to mitigate the destructive effects of illness.

2. The wage-worker stands in greater need of health insurance, because: first,
his economic status depends much more closely upon preservation of health;
second, as a result of the unhygienic or harmful conditions of his life and
work, he is very much more susceptible to ill health, than the members of the
employing or all property-owning classes.

3. The advantages of health insurance are clearly demonstrated by the rapid
extension of private health insurance of various forms, commercial as well as
mutual.

4. The experience of Europe demonstrates that public concern in health
insurance for the wageworking class is almost universal in all industrial
countries. Practically every European country has some system of sickness or
health insurance, and compulsory health insurance for the wage-workers has
already been introduced in Germany, Austria, Hungary, Luxemburg, Norway, Great
Britain, Servia, Russia, Roumania, and Holland. This should offer sufficient
evidence that social health insurance is not a whim or fad, but a definite step
in the development of labor and social legislation.

But against all these arguments the still popular plea is advanced that
European conditions do not offer a fair measure of conditions in the United
States, and that the solutions of economic problems which Europe has tried and
found effective may not at all fit us, that this blind imitation of European
remedies is highly dogmatic and demonstrates lack of familiarity with the
ideals of American life. The proposals for compulsory health insurance of the
wage-workers made in several states have been characterized as an " Un-American
doctrine." *

4 " The Un-American Doctrine of State Compulsory Health Insurance," by T. L.
Thompson, Economic World, March 4,

What then are the peculiar features of American life which would make this
well-nigh universal movement of the industrial era utterly inapplicable here?
The plea that compulsion is undemocratic, paternalistic, socialistic and what
not, will be dealt with in its proper place, when the principle of compulsion
is considered. But still more insistent, on one hand, is the claim that the
guiding principle of American life requires a standard of wages sufficiently
high to enable the wage-worker to meet all the necessary losses of illness,
such as the cost of medical aid, out of his own earnings, and on the other, the
assertion that American wages actually have that level. As Mr. Thompson puts it
energetically,5 "the condition of employees in the United States does not
warrant the enactment of such a plan."

The reasons for this attitude of this and similar writers, who represent
commercial insurance interests, will be dealt with elsewhere. It is sufficient
to point out at this juncture that the numerous studies of the economic
conditions of the American wage-worker do not at all justify any such optimism.
That wages in the United States as a rule have a higher monetary value than the
corresponding wages in Europe may be readily admitted. But the numerous
investigations made in connection with workmen's compensation, with minimum
wage legislation, and so forth, have demonstrated a very fre

'See Economic World, March 4, 1916.

quent lack of correspondence between customary earnings and necessary minimum
expense.

Professor Scott Nearing's conclusion that "half of the adult males working in
the industrial sections of the United States receive less than $600 per year,
three-quarters are paid less than $750 annually," and further " that half of
the women fall below $400 a year, while nearly nine-tenths receive less than
$750,"9 making no deduction for unemployment, have been given wide publicity.
They have been charged with undue exaggeration. But waiving aside questions of
statistical accuracy, the general conception concerning the customary level of
American wages, and especially American annual earnings seems to be grossly
misleading.

The country was recently flooded with statements emanating from an organization
of Western railroad companies concerning the very high wages of engineers and
trainmen. But the condition governing these exceptional trades must not be
assumed without further inquiry to apply to American industry at large. Another
serious student of wages arrived at the conclusion that in 1911, " at least
half of the males aged sixteen or more, engaged in gainful occupations were
earning less than $626 a year." 7 The wage data in the United States are very
fragmentary; they are published by a multiplicity of permanent institutions,

• Scott Nearing, Wages in the United States, p. 213. ■ Frank Hatch Streightoff,
The Distribution of Incomes in the United States, p. 152.

governmental and private, by special investigating bodies, and by private
students. This is no place to go into an exhaustive study of the data, which
has already been and is being done by other students. But that the earnings of
the most unskilled and certain semi-skilled trades and occupations are not
sufficient to provide for a decent family standard is now generally admitted by
most persons familiar with actual conditions. At the hearing on a Health
Insurance bill held before a legislative committee at Albany on March 14,1916,
Mr. B. B. Burritt, director of the New York Association for Improving the
Condition of the Poor, testified that a family of 2 adults and 3 children needs
at least $56 a month for the barest necessaries of life, which is more than the
ordinary unskilled laborer can expect to earn, so that no margin is left for
any emergency, including sickness.

The conclusions to which the writer came some years ago, may perhaps once more
be stated here.8

1. From two-thirds to three-fourths of all productive workers in the United
States depend upon wages or small salaries for their existence.

2. From four-fifths to nine-tenths of the wageworkers receive wages which are
insufficient to meet the cost of a normal standard of health and efficiency for
a family, and about one-half receive very much less than that.

• Social Insurance, pp. 43-44.

S. If a certain proportion of wage-workers' families succeed in attaining such
a standard, it is made possible only by the presence of more than one worker in
this family. This condition, however, can only be temporary in the history of
any workingman's family.

4. An annual surplus in the workingman's budget is a very rare thing, and is
very small.

5. The growth of savings-bank deposits in the United States is not sufficient
evidence of the ability of the American workingman to make substantial savings.
A large proportion of these savings belongs to other classes of population, and
in so far as information is available, the average workingman's deposits are
very small.

While these are all statements of static conditions, the investigation of the
dynamics of the condition of the wage-working class leads to even more striking
facts. It is but too often complacently assumed that the rise of American wages
offers an almost automatic corrective to all economic problems of the
wage-worker's existence. The point involved is of such tremendous importance
for the basic motive of our entire social policy that a careful and painstaking
inquiry was undertaken by the writer some two years ago.9

A comparison of wages and retail prices from 1890 to 1912 led to the following
conclusions, at

• See "The Recent Trend of Real Wages," American Economic Review, Vol. IV, No.
4, Dec, 1914.

present universally accepted by various shades of economic opinion:10

"In years of falling or even slowly rising prices, the American wage-worker was
able to hold his own or to improve his condition to a slight extent. But when
confronted with a rapidly rising price movement (accompanied as it was by a
violent growth of profits) the American wage-worker, notwithstanding his
strenuous effort to adjust wages to these new price conditions, notwithstanding
all his strikes, boycotts, and riots, notwithstanding all this picturesque
I.W.W.-ism, new unionism, and the modish sabotage, has been losing surely and
not even slowly, so that the sum total of economic progress of this country for
the last quarter of a century appears to be a loss of from 10 to 15 per cent in
his earning power."

The growing demand for a constructive and a protective social policy toward the
American wageworker is therefore not a fad or a fancy. Whatever the reasons may
have been for America lag

10 See Professor John Gray, " Economics and the Law" (Address of the
President), Proceedings, 27th Annual Meeting of the American Economic
Association, 1914, p. 18; Professor Walter E. Clark, The Cost of Living (1915),
pp. 107108; W. E. Walling, "Who Gets America's Wealth," Intercollegiate
Socialist, Vol. IV, No. 2, Dec, 1915; New Review, Oct., 1915; D. H. L. Weld,
Marketing of Farm Products; Professor E. D. Durand in his Presidential Address
before the American Statistical Association, Dec, 1915; Professor W. Jett
Lauck, in Locomotive Engineers' Monthly Journal, 1915; B. S. Warren and . E.
Sydenstriker, loc. cit, pp. 43-44.

ging behind Europe in matters of social legislation, and particularly that
branch of it dealing with social insurance, these reasons are rapidly
vanishing. If the harmful effects of the increasing cost of living will be
counteracted, if organized society intends to undertake a serious campaign for
prevention of destitution, if finally the movement for conservation of the
health of the nation is to have any meaning at all, then health-insurance
legislation becomes the burning issue of the hour.

II

THE PRINCIPLE OF COMPULSION

In drawing references from European experience it will be sufficient to keep in
mind the main types, and for this purpose three countries have been selected,
representing the three distinct and perhaps most important types. These
countries are Germany, Great Britain, and Denmark. Of course, this will not
prevent more or less frequent references to the experience of many other
European countries, in which social health insurance has been in existence for
many years, such as Austria, Hungary, Russia, Switzerland, Norway, or others.

The systems of Germany and Great Britain are at present the two most important
systems of health insurance, both being compulsory but with the important
difference that Germany not only prescribes the obligation to insure, but also
indicates the insurance-carrier, while the British system leaves the selection
of the insurance-carrier to the free choice of the insured. Denmark has perhaps
the best voluntary system of sickness insurance in Europe, and has been
selected for this reason.

The three types represented by these three countries may be described as
follows: (1) voluntary insurance with state subsidies (Denmark); (2) compulsory
insurance with a practically prescribed insurance-carrier (Germany); (3)
compulsory insurance with freedom of choice of insurance-carrier (Great
Britain).

The crucial question which demands an answer at the very outset is whether a
voluntary or a compulsory system is contemplated. Almost all other provisions
of the system depend upon this.

Voluntary insurance against sickness, as against accidents or other
emergencies, exists as a spontaneous growth in this country as in almost all
others. Both the commercial and the mutual, co-operative forms are well known.
When, however, voluntary insurance is spoken of in connection with
socialinsurance problems, something more than platonic indorsement of existing
provisions for voluntary insurance is meant. It is assumed that the state must
take some definite steps to stimulate and encourage, or at least to control and
protect, these spontaneous efforts. If compulsion is rejected, the choice is
left between various degrees of assistance and guidance of the voluntary
systems by governmental authority.

Accordingly, three systems of sickness insurance may be recognized in Europe,
placed here in the logical order of development toward a comprehensive system
rather than in strict chronological sequence: (1) voluntary insurance,
regulated by state authority; (2) voluntary insurance with substantial state
subsidies in addition to regulation and control; and (3) compulsory insurance.

In comparing these three systems, the first noteworthy fact is the strong and
increasing tendency toward compulsory insurance throughout Europe. Beginning
with the German system established in 1884, no less than ten European countries
have established systems of compulsory sickness insurance for all or most of
their wage-workers:

Germany 1884

Austria 1888

Hungary 1891

Luxemburg 1901

Norway 1909

Servia 1910

.Great Britain 1911'

Russia 1912

Rou mania 1912

Netherlands 1913

In addition many other countries, not popularly credited with compulsory
systems of social insurance, nevertheless have such systems for certain groups
of wage-workers (largely those employed in mining, railroading, and navigation)
in virtue of special legislative enactments (Belgium, Italy, France, and
Spain). Subsidized voluntary insurance against sickness may be said to exist in
five countries only: Sweden, Denmark, Belgium, France, and Switzerland. The
most important systems are those of Denmark and Switzerland. That of the
latter, however, is still in the making, though the act was passed in June,
1911, and the Danish presents the highest development of this form of social
insurance at present. The purely platonic attitude of regulation persists in a
very few European countries only. Great Britain, Switzerland, and Holland have
abolished it within the last half-decade. Italy and Belgium (and perhaps
France) may be included in this group.

The lesson of history is therefore strongly in favor of the compulsory
principle in this branch of social insurance. Evidence to that effect has been
strengthened within the last few years. After the organization of the first two
or three compulsory systems in the early eighties, there seems to have been a
twentyyear period of testing the experiment. As a result of this test the years
1909-13 have brought six new national compulsory sickness-insurance systems in
Europe.

What considerations have brought about this victory of the compulsory
principle?

1. The demonstrated inability to bring the neediest strata of the working class
into the system by any measures short of compulsion. Under all voluntary
systems the proportion of the insured in a definite labor group is in inverse
ratio to its economic status. Ability and willingness to meet the cost of
insurance presuppose the existence of some surplus in the budget and a
sufficient cultural status for the appreciation of the advantages of the
insurance principle. Both are least present in the lower strata of the
wageworking class where disease is most frequent and the economic need caused
by disease greatest. Experience has proved that only by compulsion can these be
reached.

In Germany, i.e., the proportion of the population compulsory insured in 1911
was as follows:

Population

Males 32,000,000

Females 32,900,000

Total 64,900,000

Insured Per cent

10,300,000 32.2 3,660,000 11.1 13,960,000 2T5

It is also estimated that the further extension of the German compulsory
insurance system through the act of 1911 has extended the system over an
additional 5,000,000 by including farm laborers, domestic servants, and a few
other groups, so that the proportion would be over 30 per cent.

In the United Kingdom the number insured exceeds 14,000,000 in a population of
some 45,000,000, or a percentage of 81, the proportion of insured men being
about 50 per cent and that of insured women about 20 per cent.

As against these imposing figures the proportion of insured workmen under even
a liberally subsidized system is considerably smaller. In France the total
number of adult persons insured in the " soci6tes de secours mutuels" does not
exceed 4,000,000 or 10 per cent. In Belgium, with a population of 7,500,000,
the total membership of similar organizations

did not exceed half a million, or 6 per cent. In Italy the proportion is about
8 to 4 per cent, and in Spain less than 1 per cent.

A striking exception to this rule is presented by the experience of Denmark,
where the voluntary system, carefully nurtured by government supervision and
substantial subsidy, has succeeded in drawing into the voluntary system a very
substantial proportion of the population of that little country, as the
following figures for 1914 will show:

Population Insured Per cent.

Males 1,338,000 401,800 30.0

Females 1,419,000 444,400 31.1

Totals 2,757,000 843,200 SOU

It must be pointed out, however, that half of the insured persons are women,
most of them wives of insured men, while in Germany the insurance usually
carries with it at least medical benefits for wife and family, so that in
reality the percentage of insured families is still smaller in Denmark than in
Germany.

But granting the splendid numerical development of subsidized insurance in
Denmark, it does not follow that what is possible in such a small and compact
community (and then after 25 years of development) could be easily realized in
a vast country like ours.

2. Shifting the burden of insurance. A study of the social causes of disease
establishes at least a partial responsibility for illness on the part of
industry and society. Justice would require that industry and society should
share in the cost of health insurance. But besides this argument of abstract
equity, there is the economic fact that for a large proportion of the
wage-workers the earnings are such as to make the cost of insurance too heavy a
burden. Both equity and necessity require that at least part of this burden be
shared by other classes of society. The subsidized voluntary system recognizes
this, and endeavors to relieve the burden by a state or local governmental
subsidy. But only through a compulsory system does it become possible to shift
part of the cost upon the employer and upon industry at large. The essential
feature of compulsion is exercised upon the employer who is forced to meet part
of the cost.

3. Standardization of the insurance service. Not only the quantitative, but
also the qualitative, development of the insurance system must be considered.
It is important, not only that all strata of workingmen be insured, but that
the services rendered by the insurance institutions be effective and capable of
meeting the problems which call for health insurance. Under a subsidized system
an effort is usually made to accomplish this result by exacting certain
conditions before the subsidy is granted. This method has reached its highest
development under the Swiss law. But, at best, the requirements of a voluntary
system cannot be far above the actual practice of the organizations existing at
the time, or otherwise it is in danger of failing entirely. Thus, even in
Denmark the quality of service is not always satisfactory, and is usually below
that of the compulsory systems, as will appear from the detailed analysis of
various provisions in the following pages. On the other hand, both Germany and
Great Britain present and enforce definite minimum requirements, which are
adjudged practical and necessary, while the very contribution from industry
makes a higher minimum possible.

As against these advantages the system of compulsion is violently attacked on
many counts. That such attacks should be made when the principle of compulsion
is first suggested seems quite natural. In the very nature of things compulsion
must be resented in a democratic country and needs to be justified. The
objection to compulsion is therefore shrewdly utilized by all interests opposed
to the basic principle of social insurance. We expect, therefore, private
commercial insurance to oppose the principle of compulsion as utterly
un-American, because it fears in social insurance a powerful competitor. We may
expect representatives of employing capital to protest violently against this
interference with the constitutional right of their employees, because they do
not welcome the additional charge upon their own profits which the system
invariably carries. We are not surprised even when fraternal insurance—in
itself a valuable form of social insurance—lodges its protest against
compulsion because of its possible interference with the further development of
the voluntary form of insurance. In all these and other cases we are dealing
with definite interests rather than political ideas, and even if the latter are
at all sincere they are inevitably influenced by the former. But as a matter of
fact, antagonism to compulsion is found to some extent even among the
wage-workers who are the chief beneficiaries of the plan. The arguments against
compulsion must therefore be earnestly reckoned with.

What creates antagonism to compulsory insurance is the implied restriction of
individual liberty. "I am going to be my own judge whether I am going to be
insured against sickness or anything else, and if at all where and when and
under what terms" many an American workman argues. "It is nobody's business but
my own."

A spokesman for commercial insurance interests puts the same argument into more
eloquent English. "If any citizen can by law be compelled to carry health
insurance and pay therefor a part of his earnings, he can be compelled under
the same principle of legislation to do anything else and pay the cost out of
his hard earnings, if somebody else thinks it will be beneficial to him. Such a
doctrine is absolutely destructive of a man's rights to do or not to do
whatever his judgment may dictate as to matters that solely affect him
personally. It is the exercise of absolute and arbitrary governmental power
over the individual." 1

Of course the power is denied by this and many other writers on constitutional
grounds. It is not the intention of the writer, who claims no standing as an
authority in Constitutional law, to argue the question of constitutionality at
this place. For this legal aspect of the question the reader is referred to the
appendix, where an authoritative statement by an expert will be found. But it
is sufficient at this time to point out that, in colloquial English, "You can
lead a horse to water, but you cannot make him drink." All the compulsion that
is exercised over the wage-worker in the final analysis resolves itself into a
money charge—somewhat akin to a tax. The benefits of the health insurance
system will not be pressed upon him by force, and the power of the state to
impose taxes is fairly well admitted. But is there really an entirely new
principle of governmental authority involved? The principle of compulsory
education, or compulsory vaccination, after all represents a much more
substantial interference with personal liberty for considerations imposed upon
the individual from the outside. Nor is the principle of compulsory insurance
at all new and lacking in precedents in this country. In a number of states,
as, for instance New York, Ohio, Washington, and several others, compulsory
insurance of accident com

1 T. L. Thompson, The Economic World, March 4, 1916, p. 315.

pensation is forced upon the employer, and that only partly for his own good,
and partly for the good of his employees. The compulsion to insure (and, in
both Washington and Ohio, to insure with a certain insurance-carrier) is
independent of, and additional to, the legal obligation to pay compensation.

Can the claim be made that the benefit of insurance is limited to the insured
person himself, and therefore the compulsion is entirely gratuitous and
paternalistic? Is it really "nobody's business but his own"? In the majority of
cases the interest of the family is directly involved, since their economic
status is entirely dependent upon his earnings. And in all cases without
exception the social organism as a whole has a vital concern, for in absence of
some organized protection every sick workman may become a charge upon the
community both for his care and support.

The claim that this legislation is applicable only to a despotic form of
government seems to be readily disposed of by the British act of 1911. And the
passionate criticism of this legislation because it has been " imported from
Europe," seems rather extravagant in view of the general acceptance of
workman's compensation, which less than 10 years ago was decried with equal
vehemence as thoroughly contrary to American traditions.

Ill

EXTENT OF HEALTH INSURANCE

Having determined upon a definite system of health insurance, to whom shall we
make it applicable?

Under a compulsory system, this problem is somewhat more complex than if the
system is voluntary. If the system is one of platonic regulation only, very few
restrictions are necessary. When a substantial public subsidy is granted, it
must be justified by the economic status of the beneficiaries, for it does not
appear desirable to dissipate public funds, obtained from general taxation, in
subsidizing the rich or even well-to-do.

In Denmark, membership in the subsidized societies, with full rights as to
subsidy, is permitted to " wageworkers, artisans, home workers, and employees
and other persons in similar economic conditions," while individual cases may
be decided on their merits.

On the other hand, the comprehensive Swiss act of 1911, which establishes
subsidized voluntary health insurance, contains no limitations as to
membership, the assumption probably being that the subsidy is too small to
tempt many individuals of the higher social groups who are not in need of such
insurance.

As a purely abstract proposition, every form of social insurance should be
extended to all the classes which are in need of it, which would roughly fit in
with the Danish formula "wage-workers and other persons in similar economic
conditions."

But under all compulsory systems numerous limitations are often found and some
of these limitations may, for reasons of practical administration, be quite
inevitable, for compulsion requires a certain administrative machinery, which
like all other machinery, can work successfully only under certain favorable
conditions. It is generally admitted that insurance compulsion cannot
successfully be exercised directly over the independently employed individual
unless possibly a comprehensive passport system is introduced: that, on the
other hand, compulsion and the necessary financial operations can be readily
applied to the employer and, through him, to the wageworker himself. For these
reasons compulsory social insurance seldom if ever endeavors to extend beyond
the employed class, wage-workers and salaried employees.

This limitation may, therefore, be described as an inevitable one, arising out
of the very system of compulsory insurance. Other limitations, however, are
less obvious, and must be explained by different social motives.

The original German act of 1883 was somewhat limited, applying to persons
employed in mines, salt works, metallurgical establishments, quarries, pits,
factories, railroads, and river steamships, on wharves and in building
operations, in mechanical trades and all other manufacturing establishments. It
was gradually extended by numerous amendments to newindustrial groups.

The act of 1892 included persons employed in commercial establishments, certain
groups of clerical employees, those in the post-office and telegraph service,
etc.

Roughly, the act of 1903, in force until the recent revision of the whole
insurance code in 1911, included practically all industry, building, mines,
quarries, transportation, commerce, and certain office employees. The act of
1911 broadened the application of the law so that practically all employees are
included. The large groups brought under the law for the first time are the
agricultural laborers, domestic servants, and home workers, about 5,000,000 in
all.

In Austria the sickness-insurance act covers practically all manufacturing,
building and construction, land and water transportation, and practically all
commercial establishments, but not domestic service or agriculture or domestic
industries. Similarly the Hungarian system, according to the amended act of
1907, includes almost all important wage groups with the exception of domestic
service and agriculture.

It is significant that the more recent laws are more comprehensive from the
very beginning. The Norwegian act of 1909 includes all industries and groups of
wage-workers and salaried employees of certain wage levels, not excepting
either domestic service or agricultural wage labor.

The British act, adopted many years later, from the first endeavored to be
practically universal in its application. It covers all employed persons, with
a few exceptions of minor importance, explained by special considerations, such
as previous existence of similar provisions.

The lesson of European experience, therefore, is decidedly for a broad general
act, rather than one limited in its application. It will probably be argued
that it would be better to begin on a small scale, as Germany has done. But it
must not be forgotten that we are entering the field thirty years later, and in
face of a wealth of experience, while Germany was forced to undertake
experimental work in an untried direction. Of course specific exceptions may be
necessary, often depending upon local conditions. But the basic rule, or at
least the ideal, should be general application.

The large groups, concerning which a definite decision must be arrived at in
the very beginning, are four or five: (1) agricultural laborers, (2) domestic
servants, (3) home workers, (4) casual and irregular employees, (5) government
employees. Undoubtedly in the case of each one of these groups special
conditions exist which may require special consideration in the act, or in the
detailed regulations which must be left to some administrative body. Detailed
discussion of all these specific conditions is impossible in a

brief outline of standards, such as is here intended, but the main points
involved may be indicated here.

The history of compensation legislation in this country has already
demonstrated that there is a well-proved tendency to except many of these
groups. The argument is often lack of necessity for inclusion upon the plea
either that the occupations are nonhazardous, or that the wage contract usually
presupposes reasonable care during disability. That is frequently stated to be
the case with the agricultural laborers and domestic servants. In many cases
there may be a basis for this contention; but it cannot be universally true.
Neither farmers nor housewives will support for an indefinite time disabled
employees or widows and orphans of those fatally injured, and the peculiar
conditions of the implied wage contract (in so far as they are not exaggerated)
may at best demand only a modification and not an abolition of the compensation
principles. Nor are the broad statements as to the lack of hazard at all based
upon actual facts. The truth of the matter is that the exclusion of farmhands
or domestic servants is due to the entirely different reason of expediency—to
inability or unwillingness to force the additional charge upon farmers or
householders.

The reasons for excepting these two groups from the benefits of a
health-insurance scheme are even weaker than in case of compensation, for the
arguments in favor of the system are not at all based upon any specific
occupational hazard. Only on a ground of political expediency—the numerical and
political strength of the farmers, the objection of the housewife to
stamp-licking—can their exception, be justified. Such compromises may
temporarily be necessary, but it is better to be aware of the nature of such
exceptions. The theoretical standards must include both.

Still stronger is the argument in favor of inclusion of the home workers and
casual employees. Both of these groups are probably at the very bottom of the
economic ladder. The economic and hygienic effects of illness among them are
extremely serious. The cost of the insurance to the employer cannot be
considered an excessive charge. But the exclusion of these two groups is often
justified on entirely different grounds, namely by administrative
considerations. When the conditions of the wage contract are temporary or
involved and indefinite it is not always a simple matter to provide for the
necessary administrative machinery to keep these two groups insured and enforce
the employers' contribution. But the experience of Great Britain has
demonstrated that it is not impossible to devise administrative methods to
realize the insurance of these groups. The details are perhaps too complicated
to go into at any great length here. Moreover, they do not constitute an
essential aspect of the general standards. Difference in conditions may call
for different provisions in this country. It may seem better not to embody such
administrative details in the act, and the administrative machinery created for
the system may be trusted to possess enough inventive spirit to adopt European
methods or devise new ones. But it is important to insist that the classes in
question should not be excluded.

The situation is somewhat different in regard to government employees. The only
reason for excluding them may be the permanency of their employment contract
and, in addition, the provisions for disability already existing and often more
liberal than those that a universal health-insurance system can offer. These
conditions, however, seldom apply to the industrial employees of the
government. No exception of government employees as such appears necessary,
though the system established may contain a general proviso for distinct
treatment of all groups already satisfactorily provided for in a different way.

Some opposition to the extension of a compulsory system to clerical employees
may be expected because of similar considerations. It is argued that it ia
quite customary for employers of clerical labor, especially those employing
large numbers, to continue the full salary during illness, and that systematic
provision of sick benefits is therefore unnecessary, or ever? harmful because
it would reduce the remuneration during illness to two-thirds, and in addition
exact contributions from the employees. This argument was very popular in Great
Britain when the National Insurance system was first introduced.

But several important considerations are disregarded in this argument.

1. The practice is far from being universal. Deductions from salaries are not
at all uncommon, even in case of large employers. And more frequently the
salary is paid only in "worthy " cases, the decision resting entirely with the
employer.

2. The full salary is seldom paid for any length of time (as for instance over
one month) in the case of the less important employees.

3. Even if the salary is continued, no special allowance is made for medical
aid, nor is there any care taken to provide such aid promptly.

4>. There is nothing in any insurance plan to prohibit the employer from
supplementing the allowance from the health insurance fund so as to bring it to
a full amount of wages.

5. Health insurance only permits the employer to deduct the employee's
contribution from his wages, but does not require him to do so.

It should be evident that a legally established contractual obligation is
preferable to an allowance which is made voluntarily and may be withdrawn at
any time at the will of the giver.

Only a few words need be added in regard to other limitations upon the extent
of application of a health-insurance system.

Several American compensation laws contain exceptions based upon the number of
persons employed by the individual employer. There is no justification for
these limitations which sacrifice the interests of the workman to the misguided
social ideal of protecting petty industry—an ideal perhaps more hopeless in
this country than any other. And there is still less reason for such exceptions
in health insurance. As far as industrial hazard is concerned, it is probably
true on the whole that there is less hazard in small establishments, which
usually means establishments with little utilization of mechanical power. But
as far as health hazards are concerned, the exact opposite is true—that the
smaller the establishment the worse are the sanitary and hygienic conditions,
the more danger is there to the health of the worker.

Age limits have been suggested, on the plea that minors, who while employed are
not necessarily fully self-supporting, might be excepted; in Great Britain,
persons who reach the pension age are also excepted. No good reasons for any
such exceptions present themselves in this country—the fact of employment is of
decisive influence. All restrictions would have the additional drawback of
causing false statements, whether the influence might be toward or away from
insurance.

More important is the restriction as to the size of the annual income which is
found in most compulsory acts. In the case of the wage-workers employed in
manual labor, such restrictions seem hardly necessary. The margins within which
wages fluctuate are after all limited. They seldom rise to a level where health
insurance would be altogether unnecessary,

and still more rarely do they remain on such a high level for a long time.
Unemployment frequently reduces even the unusually high weekly wage to the
basis of modest annual earnings; on the whole the weekly wage of the manual
worker does not of itself offer any accurate basis of judgment as to the
economic status, unless accompanied by reliable data as to the customary extent
of unemployment; and the exact determination of the actual annual earnings is
too complicated a statistical problem to serve as a basis for determining the
insurance status of each worker.

But the situation is somewhat different in regard to salaried employees, who
are included in a healthinsurance system. The meaning of the term is not a
rigid one. While a majority are wage-workers in everything except the technical
nature of their work and the lesser frequency of payment periods, the class
includes a small proportion of persons of very high incomes, to whom neither
compulsion nor subsidy from employer or state would appear necessary.

Unemployment among salaried employees is comparatively slight. The size of the
monthly salary check offers a reasonably accurate standard for determining the
annual earnings. Some maximum limitation, therefore, appears useful. In Germany
this has been placed at 2,500 marks, in Great Britain at £160. In this country,
a limitation of about $1,200 or $1,500 a year would probably reach the same
economic level.

Of course such a restriction establishes only the limits within which organized
and subsidized health insurance is an absolute social necessity. Even beyond it
may prove to be very useful. In Europe, at last, a strong "
Mittelstandbewegung" (middle-class movement) has developed which endeavors to
gain for the lower strata of the middle class some of the advantages which
social insurance has conferred upon the wage-worker. But in this country any
effort to extend this legislation into higher groups would be premature and
objectionable. For tactical reasons, if for no other, some reasonable
limitations, on the lines indicated, are necessary. Opposition to social health
insurance from the insurance companies and also from the medical profession
would be stimulated by such extension into the middle class.

VOLUNTARY INSURANCE

It is necessary to remember that whatever advantage the voluntary insurance
method possesses need not be lost in a compulsory system. It is very easy to
tack a voluntary system on to the compulsory one. Both Germany and Great
Britain have done so.

At least four distinct social groups may be mentioned, to whom the advantages
of voluntary insurance may be offered.

First, there are the persons who carry insurance for some time under the
compulsory law, and who, because of an improvement in their economic status,
rise out of the compulsory class. It is very desirable that they be permitted
to preserve their membership, because their relief from compulsion may not be
permanent, and because, having become used to this institution, they may
consider complete retirement from it a hardship. The argument can be justly
made by them that, having paid premiums while young and healthy, they are not
fairly treated if required to abandon insurance at an advanced age. Under this
group may be mentioned female employees, who cease being wage-workers through
marriage. A system which would not permit them to remain insured would appear
discriminating against the majority of female employees.

Secondly, there is a group consisting of members of a family working within
their family, without any definite remuneration. As an illustration, the great
class of farmhands working upon the family's farm may be mentioned. When they
constitute an integral part of the family economy, no wages are paid, and in
sickness they presumably will not be deprived of means of support. Yet the
economic loss caused by sickness is not diminished merely, but transferred from
the individual to the family unit. The advantages of insurance are evident, but
before a general compulsory system for this class may be advocated, the
privilege of voluntary insurance may be extended to include it.

Thirdly, there are all those wage-earners, or employees, who for some reason
are not included under the compulsory system. If the reason for such exception
is administrative rather than economic, it is evidently fair to permit them at
least to come under the system voluntarily.

Finally, if the whole theory upon which compulsory health insurance is based is
at all correct, then the same economic arguments may be applicable even beyond
the groups of wage-workers and salaried employees, to those whose economic
status is but little better. We have in mind the small independent producer or
shopkeeper, who often is forced to remain independent because he is unable to
obtain remunerative employment, either in industry or in commerce. As
illustrations of this group may be named cobblers, tailors, bicycle-repairers,
etc. Even the employment of one or two helpers is not always evidence that
these employers earn more, and therefore need health insurance less, than
expert mechanics. The admission of such individuals into the health-insurance
system causes no difficulties for the latter, and may be a great advantage. Of
course, in the case of all these voluntary groups, there is no contribution
from the employer, either because of the absence of one, or because of the
evident difficulty of such contribution in case of voluntary insurance. But the
advantages of voluntary insurance are found in the economical management and
careful state supervision of the insurance-carriers, and perhaps also in the
government subsidy in which those voluntarily insured may be permitted to
share. The question of such subsidy will be discussed in a subsequent chapter.

In any case, the existence of such advantages may require a limitation even to
the voluntary insurance, and a convenient limitation may be found in the amount
of annual income. Under the present level of prices, an annual income of $1,500
may present a convenient dividing line, above which we find families able to
solve the problem without any government compulsion or subsidy. Yet no dogmatic
importance need be attached to this line of division. It will be necessary in
the beginning, because the need of social insurance must still be argued from
the economic necessities of the wage-workers; but in Europe at present this
demand for the extension of socialinsurance methods to the middle class is very
great, and in many instances has led to legislation.

[ocr errors]

THE SCOPE OF HEALTH INSURANCE

The term " health insurance " may permit of several interpretations. The
various branches of social insurance gradually merge into one another. As it is
often difficult to draw the exact line of demarcation between disease and
industrial injury, health insurance often merges into accident insurance. Even
disability consequent upon old age is not always easily distinguished from
sickness, and between these two lies the entire field of permanent invalidity.
As a matter of fact, the artificial lines of division between the different
branches of social insurance established in different countries do not often
coincide. When the structure of social insurance is complete, these lines of
demarcation are perhaps of secondary importance. Their effect is felt primarily
in the different incidence of cost, which is far less important than the
existence of the provision. When social insurance is only in the making,
however, these exact circumscriptions of the field to be covered by every new
plan proposed often determine the time when a certain group of cases of
destitution is to receive the necessary relief. It is imperative, therefore,
that the exact limitations of the phrase "health insurance" be carefully
defined.

DISEASE AND ACCIDENT

Under this caption two problems present themselves, that of industrial and that
of non-industrial accidents. The great publicity given to the question of
workmen's compensation during the last few years has thrown the question of
non-industrial accidents into obscurity.

Accidents may be defined as traumatic diseases (diseases or conditions brought
about by external violence). Wage-workers, like other people, are subject to
all these accidents of everyday life which are so frequent, particularly in
this country. Perhaps few writers on the subject appreciate the importance of
the non-industrial accidents. Out of 538,808 cases treated by the famous
Leipzig local sick fund in 1887-1905, 62,295, or 11.5 per cent, were cases of
non-industrial accidents, while the number of industrial accidents was only
42,893, or 8 per cent.

American statistics are extremely scant_ai)jcLfxagmentary even in regard to
industrial accidents, though efforts to gather them systematically gradually
extend throughout compensation states. But in regard to the frequency of
non-industrial accidents scarcely any definite information exists. It is known
in a general way that all kinds of accidental injuries are more frequent in the
United States than perhaps anywhere else throughout the civilized world, but to
endeavor to obtain at present a definite measure of industrial and
non-industrial accidents would be like calculating the proportion between two
unknown quantities. A few suggestive data may be quoted. According to Dr. Louis
I. Dublin, statistician of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.,1 the experience
among the 12 or 13 million policyholders of that company (which is preferable
to general mortality statistics for our purposes because it covers primarily
the industrial class, with its women and children) shows that deaths from
"external causes" (largely accidents) constituted in 1911-1914 7.87 per cent of
all deaths, or 94.4 per 100,000.

Even though recent years, under the influence of various " safety first "
campaigns, show an improvement, from 95.6 per 100,000 in 1911 to 85.9 in 1914,
the rate of accidental deaths is very much higher than, for instance, in
England. Thus for "white male lives " age group 25-34, the ratio in the United
States (Metropolitan experience) was 154.8 3 and for England and Wales only
61.9 per 100,000. Some part of this difference may be due to industrial causes,
but hardly all of it can thus be explained. Such data as are becoming available
seem to argue against a very great difference in the industrial hazards of the
United States and Europe. It is at least a plausible hypothesis that,
comparatively speaking,

1 " Mortality from External Causes Among Industrial Policyholders of the
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 1911-1914." Proceedings of the Casualty
Actuarial and Statistical Society of America, Vol. II, No. 5, 1916.

"Louis I. Dublin, loc. cit.

American life is more dangerous than American industry.

Some corroboration of this hypothesis may be found in the variations of this
ratio according to age groups.

The number of deaths from accidental causes per 100,000 for white male persons
in 1911-1914, according to the Metropolitan Company's experience was as
follows:

[table]

The substantial death rates from these causes even for non-industrial ages are
especially noteworthy.

Fatal cases, however, present only a very small proportion of non-industrial as
well as industrial accidents (of the latter less than 1 per cent).3

•See I. M. Rubinow, Standard Accident Table (1915), p. 38.

The largest insurance company writing personal accident insurance reports the
payment in one year of 15,719 claims of which only 5,746 or 36.5 per cent were
due to occupational causes. It is true that among the persons carrying this
form of accident insurance non-industrial classes predominate; nevertheless the
distribution of claims according to causes is at least suggestive.*

[table]

It is evident that the compensation movement alone cannot solve the entire
problem of accidental injuries.

It is the uniform practice, therefore, in prac

'Traveler! Inturance Co. Agents' Record, Vol. X, No. 2, Jan. 29, 1912.

tically all health-insurance systems, to treat cases of non-industrial
accidents exactly in the way in which cases of sickness are treated. The only
notable exception is the new law of Switzerland, which has brought into
existence a special system of insurance against non-industrial accidents. Under
this system more substantial benefits are given than otherwise would be due,
but the necessity of further complicating the structure of social insurance
seems to be a serious objection. Of course non-industrial accidents often
result in permanent disability which the healthinsurance system usually does
not take cognizance of, but it seems preferable to treat such cases exactly as
other cases of invalidity are treated.

Somewhat more complicated is the question of industrial accidents. The
treatment of such cases largely depends upon whether or not accident
compensation exists at the time of the establishment of the health-insurance
system.

In Europe health-insurance systems have been established in a few cases before
accident compensation. It is quite certain, however, that in this country
health insurance has no chance at all in any state before an
accident-compensation law has been passed. Of course, if no
accident-compensation law exists, the problem of industrial accidents does not
seem to differ from that of non-industrial accidents except for one feature:
there is the opportunity in many cases to collect more or less substantial
damages from the employer. Even in case of non-industrial accidents, a similar
opportunity often presents itself as against the responsible person, since the
law of "public" liability is in practice very much more stringent than that of
employers' liability.

It is not the intention of the health-insurance law to create a condition of
over-insurance, where the benefits may be larger than the loss, but, on the
other hand, verdicts in liability suits are not collected without great loss of
time, and immediate aid may be necessary. The situation may require special
administrative provisions, not only in the case of nonindustrial accidents, or
industrial accidents where no compensation laws exist, but even in the presence
of a compensation law, the application of which in most cases is subject to
many narrow limitations. In other words, if in New York, for instance, an
employee is injured, but for some reason finds himself outside of the
protection of the compensation act, the health-insurance system should be made
applicable. Where, however, the compensation law does apply, it is not and
should not be the intention that double indemnity be paid. The simplest way to
avoid the payment of such double indemnity would be through an automatic rule,
by which a case comes under the provision of either one or the other of the two
insurance organizations. In practice, however, the line of division is not so
well defined. In all the three countries whose systems are analyzed for the
purpose of deriving a set of standards, the sicknessinsurance carriers are
required to carry part of the cost of accident compensation.

Germany has found it expedient to place the handling and compensation of all
industrial accidents for the first 13 weeks of disability upon its
healthinsurance funds. Accordingly, industrial accidents for the first 13 weeks
are, with a few minor exceptions, treated like all other cases of sickness.
Similar treatment is given to industrial accidents in most other countries with
compulsory sickness insurance, though the period of disability, the cost of
which is imposed upon sickness-insurance funds, varies.

In Russia the same period of 13 weeks has been established by the new insurance
act of 1912, much against the protest of the labor party in the Duma. In
Hungary the limit is placed at 10 weeks, and in Austria it is placed at 4
weeks. The shortest period, of # weeks only, is found in Roumania.

The argument which may be made in favpr of such arrangements is that the
health-insurance carrier has the necessary machinery for the handling of such
cases. Since the vast majority of all cases of industrial accident result in
complete recovery before the expiration of 13 weeks (probably 94 per cent), the
compensation-insurance machinery is relieved of the largest share of the work.
A complete organization of a duplicate set of officers for handling the medical
care and distribution of weekly benefits undoubtedly contains a serious element
of waste.

Where accident compensation has come subsequently to health insurance, the
uselessness of such duplication has been apparent. But, on the other hand, the
grave objection may be raised that such an arrangement, in a thinly disguised
form, forces back upon the wage-workers part of the cost of the accident
compensation which is admitted by the very theory of compensation to be a
proper charge upon industry. In Germany, the defense against this charge is
found in the employers' contribution to the cost of health insurance. Even this
defense, however, is absent in the case of Denmark, where the
accident-compensation act does not come into play until after 13 weeks of
disability, and all these cases are handled by the sick benefit funds, though
the employer does not contribute anything to their support, and though
insurance in these funds is voluntary and therefore not universal.

Great Britain has not followed this rather objectionable method, perhaps for
the reason that in that country compensation had existed for fifteen years
before the health-insurance law went into effect. The British law has, however,
a waiting period of one week, unless the injury has lasted over two weeks. In
such cases, the health-insurance system takes care of the injured. Moreover,
the accident-insurance benefits being stated in percentage of wages, and the
sickness benefits being specific (of which more later), cases may arise when
the sickness benefits are higher than the accident benefits, in which cases the
difference is paid to the injured from the health-insurance fund.

Altogether, it is evident that the entire charge placed upon the
health-insurance system through industrial accidents in Great Britain is not
very great, and, in view of the substantial contributions by the employer to
the health-insurance fund, it may be disregarded.

In the United States, the corresponding provisions of the compensation acts
place us in this respect between Germany and Great Britain. In most of the
American acts, a waiting period of two weeks has been established, and only in
a few states is it limited to one week. The two weeks' waiting period
represents a very serious problem; it has called forth severe criticism alike
from labor organizations and from many social-insurance experts. It leaves a
very large number of accidents without any compensation. Efforts toward its
abolition, or reduction to not over one week, are being made. Unless these
efforts are successful before health insurance has been introduced there is
serious danger of a part of the cost of compensation being shifted over to the
healthinsurance funds. In itself this cost may not be so very high, but, by
increasing the apparent cost of health insurance, it may injure the cause of
the latter.

And yet there is undoubtedly a material administrative advantage in the very
large number of minor injuries being handled by the health-insurance organi

zation, whatever the type of the latter may be. Being democratically managed,
it offers less incentive to malingering and exaggeration, and since it requires
a comprehensive organization of medical help it may be able to furnish this at
a lower cost than does the present organization of accident compensation.

Co-operation between the two systems is something very different from shifting
a part of the cost from the employer to the employee. A workable agreement
between the two systems, embodied in legislation, by means of which most of the
minor cases would be handled by the health-insurance carriers, while the cost
of such cases would be reimbursed from the accident-compensation fund, would
furnish a constructive contribution to the practice of social insurance.

The health-insurance bill of the American Association for Labor Legislation
introduced in the legislatures of Massachusetts, New Jersey, and New York
during the recent session provides that "benefits shall be paid for any
sickness or accident or death not covered by workmen's compensation." The
question has been raised as to whether this paragraph excluded cases of
industrial accidents, remaining uncompensated because they do not extend beyond
the waiting period (2 weeks in all the 3 states), and furthermore whether
benefits would be payable for any part of the waiting period in case of
accidental injuries extending beyond the waiting period. The formal decision
would seem to depend upon the interpretation of the exact language of the law,
which may be different for the two groups of cases outlined above. It may be
questioned whether an accidental injury which does not extend beyond the
waiting period is covered by the compensation act, though the fact that even in
such cases the right of suing the employer is denied would seem to point to a
positive answer. If the waiting period under health insurance is shorter than
for accident compensation (under the bill referred to only 3 days) there is no
good reason why the injured workman should be less cared for than the ill
workman.

Workmen's compensation legislation being what it is in this country, there is
another important aspect in which the health-insurance system will supplement
accident compensation—and that is medical aid. It seems to be preposterous even
to require an argument that the need of thorough and sufficient medical and
surgical aid in case of industrial injuries should be fully satisfied. Yet the
amount of medical aid furnished under compensation ia restricted in almost all
the acts, and in most of them to such narrow limits as 2 weeks, with an
additional money limit as a further restriction.5

1 Two weeks in Rhode Island, Oklahoma, Iowa (money limit $100), Louisiana
($100), Vermont ($75), Montana and New Jersey ($50), Maine ($30), and
Pennsylvania ($25, and in exceptional cases $75); only 1 week in Texas. No
provision for medical aid in Arizona, Alaska, Kansas, Nevada, New Hampshire,
Hawaii, Washington, Wyoming, and the United States employees' act of 1908.

In all these states the health-insurance system if established would be called
upon to fulfil a very important function in connection with, and bear a
substantial part of the cost of, accident compensation. It may well be, that
this function would be more efficiently and more economically fulfilled by the
health-insurance organization, because of its medicalaid organization. The more
reason, however, why the principle of reimbursement from the
accidentcompensation fund be insisted upon.

HEALTH INSURANCE AND OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES

Until recently Great Britain was the only country whose compensation act
specifically, and not by construction, recognized occupational diseases as a
basis for workmen's compensation. By judicial construction several American
states have accomplished the same purpose, and at least one state, California,
has amended its act so as to bring all occupational diseases under the law. But
the practice is far from uniform. It goes without saying that where
occupational diseases have been left out of the compensation acts, they would
be covered by the health-insurance law. But the fiscal principle of the
shifting of cost is seriously involved here. Besides, if the health-insurance
benefits be limited in their extent, as compared with accident compensation,
there may still remain a very important argument in favor of bringing these
cases under the compensation act. This is especially true in regard to cases of
occupational diseases resulting fatally.

The basis of compensation, that injuries due to the occupation should be paid
for entirely out of the cost of the product, is evidently applicable as fully
to occupational diseases as to industrial accidents. The difference is only in
the manner of occurrence—sudden in an accident, gradual in case of disease,
evident and violent in accident, hidden and insidious in disease. In fact, for
the purpose of occupational diseases California simply changed the word "
accident" to "injury" in the compensation law; and the decisions in favor of
covering occupational diseases in other states are usually based upon a broad
interpretation of the word "injury" to cover diseases as well as accidents.

There are two arguments which are mentioned in support of the contention that
occupational diseases should be paid out of the health insurance rather than
out of the compensation fund.

1) It is argued that the very slow process of most occupational diseases makes
the placing of the responsibility upon the individual employer (usually the
last employer) very unfair. The difficulty of determining where and when the
disease was originally acquired is a real one. But its importance is
exaggerated. A sensible system of compensation presupposes insurance which
equalizes the cost among all employers of each industry, and the individual
employer is not responsible beyond his stated premium.

2) It is further argued that it is still more difficult to determine in many
cases whether the disease is occupational or not, i.e. whether the particular
case was due to the occupation, whether it was incurred in the place of
employment at all. This difficulty, which may be a very real one, evidently
arises from the lack of a precise definition of the term " occupational
disease." Surely no such problem could arise in case of lead poisoning of a
painter, a caisson disease of a tunnel worker. It is true, however, that under
the broad definition of injuries cases of typhoid, tuberculosis, etc., were
compensated in certain American states, (Massachusetts, California, Wisconsin)
where there seemed to be evidence that these had arisen in connection with the
employment.

The final division of responsibility must necessarily rest with the
compensation legislation, since the health insurance scheme must handle all the
left-over cases. But a rational line of division would be to place the
responsibility for the specific occupational diseases upon the compensation
system; while in the case of general diseases it would prevent a good deal of
acrimonious controversy, if the health insurance scheme accepted entire
responsibility for them. In so far as some industries may be responsible for an
unusual amount of this general sickness, it is a problem for rate adjustment
according to hazard to be discussed more fully in a subsequent chapter.

HEALTH AND INVAIJDITY INSURANCE

The relation between these two branches of social insurance is even more
important than the last two or three problems discussed. A definite decision
concerning this is necessary at the very outset, because a good many problems
of organization and finance are dependent upon it. It will be necessary,
therefore, to go into some detail concerning this question.

Theoretically, it is not easy to draw the dividing line between sickness and
invalidity. The substitution of the English term " health insurance" for the
German term " sickness insurance " makes any line of distinction still more
difficult. One merges into the other. Under sickness so-called acute attacks
are usually understood. Invalidity is permanent (or at least chronic,
prolonged) illness and disability, or disability due to previous illness.
Qualitatively, also, sickness is understood to carry with it total disability
for the time being (or else the sick benefits are not granted), while the
definition of invalidity may be more lenient, and may be interpreted to mean a
substantial reduction of earning capacity, due to failing health and strength.
Thus, invalidity gradually shades into old age at the other end.

It is quite clear that as an economic problem invalidity, when given this
broader interpretation, is of equal importance with that of sickness, and, as
far as the individual cases are concerned, of even greater importance. There
can be no question as to the desirability of the insurance method of provision
against it. The real problem is whether invalidity for insurance purposes
should be merged with sickness, on which it borders on one side, or with old
age, on which it borders on the other; or whether, finally, it should be made a
matter for distinct treatment.

The predominating method under compulsory health-insurance systems is to deal
with temporary total disability, and leave invalidity to the old-age insurance
systems. That is essentially the German plan, followed by most continental
systems. Under this system temporary invalidity may be treated by the
health-insurance institutions, primarily as far as periods of recuperation from
acute illness are concerned; but outside of that a definite time limit exists
beyond which the disabled cannot be cared for by the health-insurance carrier.

In Germany, the dividing line between sickness and invalidity is the maximum
limit of 26 weeks (raised in 1903 from the original 13 weeks' limit) which
individual sickness-insurance funds may increase to a year. The invalidity and
old-age insurance system handles both the cases of permanent invalidity and
also the cases of sickness extending beyond the normal sickness period. The
distinctive feature of the German system is that invalidity is defined as
inability to earn more than one-third of the normal amount, and therefore
embraces what in the jargon of compensation is known as permanent partial
disability, as well as cases of total permanent disability.

In Denmark, the system being voluntary, individual associations are permitted
to determine the details for themselves; but according to the law money
benefits can be granted only in case of actual sickness and complete
disability, not partial disability or invalidity. As a matter of fact, very few
insurance funds grant benefits for over 18 weeks.

In Great Britain, on the other hand, invalidity insurance is joined with
sickness into one system, so far as organization and finances are concerned,
although the benefits are different. The invalidity benefits are termed "
disablement benefits " and may be given for life, while sick benefits are
payable for 26 weeks only. The definition of invalidity is strict and narrow,
including only total disability, and is, therefore, more comparable to the
benefits given in Germany to cases of sickness extending beyond 26 weeks, than
to the German invalidity benefits.

With the two great precedents of Germany and Great Britain entirely at variance
with each other, the question as to the comparative advantages of the two
systems is not an easy one. Actuarially the treatment required by the two
systems is not at all similar. As will be explained at greater length
presently, when the financial basis is studied, sickness insurance deals mainly
with a constant charge. While the rate of sickness increases with age, the rate
of increase is not very great, and the average age of any industrial group is
not very much subject to change. Since the maximum cost of any one case is
limited, substantial reserves are scarcely necessary.

Financially, sickness insurance is elastic; deficits, if any, develop rapidly
and may be rapidly corrected. For this reason the German system can afford to
leave the financial problems to the determination of the separate sick funds.

On the other hand, invalidity, at least in its broader interpretation, is
largely a result of advancing age. Like old-age insurance, invalidity insurance
requires substantial reserves, if a rapid increase in cost of such insurance is
to be prevented. Invalidity insurance is therefore a matter for long-term
contracts; it is a permanent agreement which must be subject to strict control
if the solvency of the insurance-carriers is to be guaranteed. For this reason,
invalidity insurance (like old-age insurance) in Germany is carried on by the
larger insurance institutes, which are practically state institutions and are
all the time under strict government control. To insure a fair balance between
income and expenditures a very careful actuarial study of invalidity statistics
must precede the preparation of the rates.

When invalidity benefits are combined with sick benefits, as was done in Great
Britain, and one rate of contribution is quoted for both, all the actuarial
difficulties of invalidity insurance are extended over the entire
health-insurance system. The solvency of the health-insurance carrier may be
only apparent, because the funds which should have been accumulated to meet the
future increasing charge of invalidity may have been utilized in payment of
sick benefits. Nevertheless, if the health-insurance system is based upon
compulsion to insure with a prescribed carrier, the financial difficulty may
not be fatal. So long as the insurance-carrier is sure of its hold on a
definite group of insured, it can meet the increased cost by distribution among
all of them. The excessive burden may be felt, but cannot be escaped. But the
British system unfortunately was based upon freedom of choice between
insurance-carrier, and right of transfer from one carrier to another. Thus the
financial problems became doubly complex. With a system of "level premiums,"
with which the public is familiarized through life insurance (i.e., premiums
which should be increasingly larger, but which are recomputed to equal annual
amounts, so that in the early years the premiums represent an over payment, and
in later years are below the necessary amount, and the reserve accumulated in
earlier years is gradually absorbed in the course of years), the entrance of an
insured of advanced age would represent a loss to the insurance-carrier, unless
the reserve value at his age is paid. The British system, therefore, required a
very complex system of bookkeeping with reserve values for each age, and
cross-entries between different funds for every case of transfer from one fund
to another. This again required the centralization of all funds in government
institutions. Thus many difficulties of accounting and actuarial prac

tice were created, which were increased by the very uncertainty of actuarial
data upon which all computations were made. A large share of the criticism of
the British system emanates from these difficulties, while the German system
dealing with sickness only has the advantage of simplicity and freedom from
actuarial complications.

These actuarial difficulties would have been even greater if the British
definition of invalidity were as broad as that of the German law. The British
definition approaches that of the "total permanent disability clause" under
modern American life insurance contracts,6 which but rarely comes into play.

It is evident that true industrial invalidity due to (possibly premature)
failing of earning power is a

"Within the last 20 years the practice has rapidly developed to add to the life
insurance contract a provision waiving the payment of premiums in case of total
permanent disability. An additional charge is usually made for this clause,
which is, however, so small as to be almost negligible, not so much because
total permanent disability is so rare, but because the mortality among those
suffering from it is very high. (See "The Total Disability Provision in
American Life Insurance Contracts," by Bruce D. Mudgett, Ph.D. (1915). The
Travelers Insurance Co. recently reported that it paid claims under such clause
in 43 cases, of which there were

Tuberculosis , in 14 cases

General paresis "19"

Other diseases of nervous system "11"

Cancer "2"

Injuries "3"

Other cases "1"

43 cases

much more comprehensive concept and a much more frequent occurrence. Again, for
lack of statistics, definite quantitative statements cannot be made. It is
known, however, that the similar condition of partial permanent disability is
very much more frequent than total permanent disability. According to the
Standard Accident Table, which represents the author's effort to construct a
general table of distribution of industrial accidents according to the gravity
of the injury, there may be expected out of every 100,000 accidents 133 cases
of permanent total disability and 4,742 cases of permanent partial disability.
According to the German interpretation all cases with the earning capacity
reduced to one-third or less constitute invalidity. Some 15 per cent of these
cases have suffered a disability of 66 2-3 per cent or over, or have retained
an earning capacity of 33 1-3 per cent or less—711 cases per 100,000 or between
5 and 6 times as many as there are cases of permanent total disability. Under
effect of disease, rather than injury, coupled with the effect of advancing old
age, the number of these lighter cases may be still more numerous. Nor is the
mortality among these cases as high as among the hopeless cases of total
invalidity.

Adding this feature to the ordinary limited health benefits would, therefore,
tremendously increase the possible financial burdens and perhaps make
altogether impossible the particular system of health insurance outlined in
these pages.

An explanation of the differences between the German and British methods may be
found in the different provision made by the two countries for old age. Germany
with its system of compulsory old-age insurance could very readily extend the
activity of its insurance institute to cover invalidity as weD. The British
National Insurance act found Great Britain already in possession of a system of
non-contributory old-age pensions. Public opinion would not have countenanced
the addition of noncontributory invalidity pensions (although there would have
been a precedent for it in the French oldage pension act of 1907, which
includes invalidity), and a separate organization for invalidity probably
appeared too complex. A practical way out of the difficulty appeared in the
combination (rather unusual in the history of social insurance) between
sickness and invalidity insurance.

In this country the field is open for either method; we have neither compulsory
old-age insurance nor non-contributory old-age pensions, nor has either of
these two methods as yet entered the domain of practical politics. Both methods
have already received the support of some theoretical propaganda; as far as
popular support is concerned, the advantage seems to be on the side of
non-contributory pensions, which have achieved considerable popularity among
organized labor. Some preferences either for or against inclusion of invalidity
may come as a result of partisanship in favor of either of these two plans.
Adherents of non-contributory old-age pensions may prefer to see the problem of
invalidity settled in connection with health insurance, with the hope of thus
facilitating a system of non-contributory old-age pensions.

It should not be assumed, however, that these two problems stand to each other
in the relation indicated. The question of comparative advantages of
noncontributory pensions and compulsory insurance for the purpose of old-age
relief may be decided on its own merits in due time. The present task of
carrying through a system of health insurance will be very much simplified if
it be kept separate from that of invalidity insurance.

Besides, the decision in favor of keeping these two branches of insurance
actuarially distinct need not at all interfere with the simultaneous
introduction of both systems, even by the same legislative enactment, as, for
instance, the entirely independent systems of health and unemployment insurance
have been established by the British National Insurance act of 1911, and as
accident compensation and sickness insurance have been combined in the same
Swiss law. Nor would it make some co-operation between the administrative
organisms of the two systems impossible. The only step that is here urged is
that the actuarial foundations of the two systems be kept independent of each
other, and that the advantages of freedom from actuarial difficulties be
preserved for the health-insurance system, as they easily can be.

[ocr errors]

MEDICAL BENEFITS

The direct object of health insurance is the complete or at least partial
restitution of the losses sustained through sickness. This demands two broad
divisions of service: (1) a money benefit during loss of earning power; (2)
restitution of cost of medical and surgical aid, or the direct grant of such
aid, in all its ramifications, in kind.

The necessity of medical aid, as a part of a healthinsurance system, would seem
quite obvious. Nevertheless, it must be remembered that in as many as nine
American compensation acts1 this feature is completely lacking, and perhaps the
most amazing thing is that in Washington and Wyoming this most essential
omission took place in connection with a state insurance plan. In one tentative
American draft of a health-insurance bill which reached the writer, no
provision was made for medical benefits. This is also rather frequently true of
voluntary American sickness-insurance schemes, as operated by trade unions or
establishment funds, while, on the other hand, in the large cities of the
eastern spates,

1 Alaska, Arizona, Hawaii, Kansas, Nevada, New Hampshire, Washington, Wyoming,
United States employees' compensation act of 1908.

many co-operative organizations (lodges, etc.) are found among foreign-born
workmen which endeavor to grant cheap medical aid only, independently of money
sickness benefits. It cannot, therefore, be stated too emphatically that only
through a combination of both of these forms of relief can the social purposes
of health insurance be accomplished.

It is rapidly becoming recognized that the most important, though indirect,
social purpose of insurance is its preventive effect. The recent sensational
charges against fire insurance were largely based upon the assertion that the
effects of its methods were contrary to prevention, and the defense pointed at
the preventive effect of schedule rating. The broad movement for "safety first"
resulting from compensation legislation is a matter of recent history, and the
various compensation-insurance carriers vie with one another in extending
measures of prevention in order to establish for themselves the right to
continued existence. Even in the old and well-established business of private
life insurance, the movement to accomplish not only successful selection, but
also prevention, is gaining strength and finds expression in the Life Extension
Institute, in the nursing service, in periodic examinations of insured, in the
recognition of social responsibility toward the rejected applicant, and so
forth.

Perhaps in no branch of insurance is the road to prevention so clearly
indicated as in health insurance through the granting of medical aid. So far as
the curative effect of treatment of individual cases is concerned the same
situation is found in accident compensation. But only in rare cases are
workingmen subject to repeated industrial accidents, and the effect of a
successful treatment of one injury in preventing another is somewhat
far-fetched. But in health insurance the connection between one attack of
illness and another is direct and obvious. Every case of illness is, strictly
speaking, a predisposing cause for subsequent illnesses. Even in case of those
forms of sickness which are followed by immunity, a general debilitating effect
cannot altogether be avoided. Naturally the prevention of the destructive
effects of illness depends to a large extent upon treatment and care, and the
organization of a proper system of medical aid for the masses is perhaps one of
the greatest factors in the modern movement for life conservation. In fact,
though in case of sickness of the bread-winner the obvious, immediate need may
be for financial relief, it would be no exaggeration to say that, so far as
final results are concerned, proper treatment and a rapid cure of the patient
are matters of far greater moment.

It is scarcely necessary to state that in Germany, Great Britain, Denmark, in
fact in almost all countries which have systems of health insurance worth the
name, medical aid is an integral part of the system,2

• The total omission of medical aid in Ireland was the only distressing
exception, until the passage of the act of 1913 by Netherlands, granting money
benefits only.

except perhaps in Russia, where medical aid has for 50 years constituted a
legal obligation of the manufacturer to his employee, and this condition has
not been disturbed by the sickness-insurance law of 1912. In this country,
because of the appalling spread of nostra, cure fads, faith-treating, Christian
Science, etc., some considerable opposition to an effective system of medical
aid in connection with a public insurance system may be expected. But whatever
the political necessities of various "local situations" may bring, the expert
draftsman of legislative proposals should not be willing to assume any
compromising attitude in this all-important matter.

EXTENT OF MEDICAL AID

While all national health-insurance systems are alike in making some provision
for medical aid, there is great variety in the extent and methods of such
service. It is well, therefore, to begin by enumerating the various headings
into which the broad term "medical aid " may be divided: (1) ordinary medical
aid; (2) ordinary surgical aid; (3) obstetrical aid;

(4) major surgical aid and treatment by specialists;

(5) dental care; (6) drugs and ordinary surgical supplies; (7) special
apparatus and appliances; (8) hospital care; (9) sanatoria; (10) convalescent
homes and institutes.

The list will emphasize the complexity of the problem, which may not otherwise
be obvious to the layman. The division may appear unnecessarily minute. The ten
forms, or perhaps degrees, may be summarized in the following three groups: (A)
medical treatment (1-5); (B) supplies (6, 7); (C) institutional care (8-10).
When thus stated the necessity for each group becomes obvious; drugs or other
supplies may become necessary in all cases and, in some, effective results
cannot be expected without institutional care. In the three countries selected
as types, some provisions are found in regard to each of the three large groups
of aids, but in each country the legislative situation is different.

The Danish system being optional, the law can establish only minimum
requirements as a condition of recognition and of subsidy. All three forms of
service are recognized in the law, but the extent to which aid must go cannot
in the nature of things be (specified. Nevertheless, it is significant that the
recognized societies are required to furnish hospital treatment when necessary.

While the system is compulsory in Germany, the principle of local autonomy
limits the law to minimum requirements only, and further extensions of the
service are left to the individual funds. Even the minimum requirements,
however, are fairly extensive; they include medical attendance, supply of
medicines, eyeglasses, trusses, and other minor therapeutic appliances. This
would seem to be grouped under the headings 1, 2 (possibly 4 with limitations),
6, and 7 (with limitations). In regard to institutional care, the language of
the law is not exacting, permitting the funds to substitute hospital treatment
for ordinary medical care, although, as a matter of fact, the development of
institutional treatment in Germany has been very extensive.

Finally, Great Britain is perhaps the only country which embodied in its
health-insurance law a definite and almost uniform system of medical aid. This
is consistent with the general principle of national uniformity in the British
system. The general provisions of the act include "adequate medical attendance
and treatment," ordinary drugs and supplies, such other appliances as may be
included by administrative regulations, and the much-discussed "sanatorium
benefits," to be granted only in cases of tuberculosis and such other diseases
" as the Local Government Board may appoint." Further extension of the medical
benefits is permitted as optional benefits. As will be explained elsewhere, the
situation in Great Britain is perhaps the reverse of that in Germany, in that
the actual conditions are very much inferior to those laid down as obligatory
in the law.

In our effort to establish here definite standards of medical aid, the two
aspects of the problem must be kept separate: the desirable standard of actual
accomplishment, and the standard of legal requirement. It is obvious that the
two do not and, moreover, need not always concede. Poor administration on one
hand, or unworkable legislative standards on the other, may make the practice
much less satis

factory than the law. But it is possible under the system of local autonomy and
co-operative initiative, such as is outlined in this book, for the actual
results to be vastly superior to the minimum requirements of the law. An
agreement concerning standards becomes imperative at first in formulating the
legal requirements. How far shall they go with regard to medical aid?

The writer's own choice is based upon a deep appreciation of the utmost
importance of proper medical care, perhaps due to a few years of active
practise of the medical profession. Obviously, however, it is useless to put
requirements upon the statute books, which society on a certain cultural level
is utterly incapable of meeting. If a national health-insurance act were in
contemplation, such an act could embody as a minimum requirement nothing which
even a frontier community, such as Montana, or a backwoods community of the
South could not reasonably comply with. But since health-insurance legislation,
like compensation legislation, will most likely proceed within state lines for
some years at least, it would be decidedly wrong to establish no higher minimum
requirements for New York or Massachusetts than would appear adaptable to
Wyoming or Florida.

Limiting our discussion for a moment to the states of a higher cultural level,
we may ask, What shall the minimum requirements be, as expressed in the
legislative act? Up-to-date homes for convalescents or Zander institutes may
not be expected in every county and school district, and the development of
such methods of cure may for the time being be left to the voluntary efforts of
the local health-insurance carriers. But outside of such extreme demands, it
seems to me, nothing less than thoroughly "adequate" medical and surgical care
(to utilize the splendid word of the British act), including supplies,
apparatus, hospital and sanatorium treatment, is justified.

Of course this is a much broader program than the amount and degree provided in
Great Britain either by the language of the law, or in actual practice, or even
in Germany by the general law (though not as actually applied), and yet this
formula is the least that conforms with the ideal of the life-conservation
movement of this country. Medical aid is not worth having unless it conforms to
the proper standards of the medical science of the time. If medical care under
a socially organized system of sickness insurance should degenerate to a rapid,
careless prescription of drugs by hurried and overworked physicians, then the
entire preventive effect of the system would be completely nullified. We may
well discuss the extent of economic relief which society may grant to its
disabled wards, but the first and absolute prerequisite is that it do all that
can be done to cure them. To insist that less is sufficient for the workman,
because he is a workman, is to destroy altogether the constructive character of
the entire health-insurance idea, considered as part and parcel of the modern
movement for scientific prevention of destitution. Wherever, therefore, social
conditions at all permit it, all the ten forms of medical care enumerated above
must be included in the minimum requirements of the law.

ORDINARY MEDICAL AND SURGICAL AID

The necessity for ample and efficient surgical aid in addition to ordinary
medical care is, or should be, quite self-evident. In the entire criticism of
the practice of the British national health-insurance system made by the Fabian
Research Department3 nothipg carries so much weight as the evidence that even
the performance of ordinary operations is not always guaranteed to the insured
workman. Nor is it necessary to argue that competent obstetrical aid is an
absolute necessity. This feature, however, will be dealt with at greater length
presently in connection with the entire problem of maternity insurance.

In a "backwoods" or frontier community the requirements of expert surgical aid
for major operative work and of treatment by specialists may appear
extravagant, and yet a little reflection will readily show that if the system
of health insurance is at all to produce the desired results, these services
must be included among compulsory requirements. It is pre

* Committee of Enquiry, Sidney Webb, Chairman. See The New Statesman, Special
Supplement on the Working of the Insurance Act, March 14, 1914.

posterous to guarantee to the ill workman the diagnosis in case of
appendicitis, or cancer of the stomach, but not the operation; it is
preposterous to expect him in case of some special forms of disease, such as
diseases of the nose, throat, or eye, or of the nervous system, to be satisfied
with care by an incompetent " general practitioner," or family physician; for
this would reduce the quality of care given even below that to be obtained from
free dispensaries.

And it is quite obvious that the less available these higher forms of medical
service are in certain communities the more imperative it is that the new
system of health insurance establish them. For in the progressive communities
public or private charity always stands ready to render aid in an extreme case
and emergency, but in the next community the poor man frequently suffers
serious injury to health or pays with his life for this entire absence of
specialized and expert medical aid. In the majority of German cities this
specialized medical service is being granted, and in progressive American
communities it is equally possible. It is only because of an archaic and faulty
organization of medical practice that the concepts of specialized expert
medical service and expensive service have been merged into one in public
opinion. The necessity of specialization in medicine has been recognized at the
same time that facilities for such successful specialization have grown. The
practical methods for securing the treatment of special diseases by special
experts only, and at no exorbitant cost, can be brought about by proper
organization, of which more will be said when the problem of organization of
medical aid is reached.

But it cannot be stated too emphatically right here, that whatever the
difficulties, a system of health insurance is exceedingly faulty which avoids
these difficulties by simply omitting these important branches of medical
service, as the British system does in actual application. The legal demand for
adequate medical aid is not met, if no expert diagnosis through a consultant,
no bacteriological, chemical, or physiological examinations, no X-rays, no
expert specialist treatment, and no serious operation are furnished. In view of
the large amount of evidence collected by the Fabian Committee, the charge
seems justified, that on the whole medical treatment is being provided under
the act only for the minor ailments of the insured persons.4

DENTAL CAKE

The general principles enunciated above are equally applicable to the question
of dental care. Here again some constructive steps will be necessary, as the
situation even in Europe is far from satisfactory.

In Denmark no requirement as to dental care is

contained in the act, and there is no evidence that

the recognized societies furnish it to any extent. The

* The New Statesman, Special Supplement, March 14, 1914,

British act refers to dental aid as one of the permissible "additional"
benefits. The new German act specifically refers to dentists, but the extent of
dental care is not prescribed. Presumably, simple measures like extraction are
considered an essential part of medical aid. The tendency among larger funds is
to provide for extensive dental service, and a few funds even provide part of
the cost of prosthetic dental work (artificial teeth, crowns, bridges, etc.).

The superior development of the science and practice of dentistry in the United
States furnishes a basis for a more liberal and more satisfactory provision of
dental aid. Scientific dentistry has long been recognized in this country as a
necessity rather than a luxury. In establishing the minimum cost of a standard
of living, the Massachusetts minimumwage board included a small amount for
dentistry. It is true that dental diseases are seldom sufficiently severe to
interfere with earning capacity except for very short periods of time. But the
harmful though insidious results of dental defect upon the general state of
health have already been recognized. "There is," says Professor Osier, perhaps
one of the world's greatest physicians, "not one single thing more important to
the public in the whole range of hygiene than the hygiene of the mouth. If I
were asked to say whether more physical deterioration was produced by alcohol
or defective teeth, I should unhesitatingly say defective teeth."

And the recent discoveries of a very close dependence of most rheumatic
affections, including the very serious affections of the inner lining of the
heart and its valves, upon loci of infection in the mouth and particularly in
the teeth, have placed a specially high value upon scientific care of the
teeth.

Many investigations have established the great prevalence of dental diseases
among all ages and groups of the masses. Wage-workers, themselves, are also to
some extent aware of these effects. The amount of money spent by the poor for
dental work is rapidly increasing, but unfortunately it is seldom spent so as
to produce the necessary results. Within recent years popular dentistry has
been grossly commercialized through the development of so-called "dental
parlors." In these the pressure is always for prosthetic dentistry because that
is the most expensive and therefore the most profitable to the commercial
dentist. The masses are never told that this is the least useful and most
objectionable form of dental aid, nicknamed " septic " dentistry by some
experts in the line. The cheaper and much more effective prophylactic work is
disregarded. Within recent years, however, the hygienic importance of early
dental aid has been so well recognized by scientific students that organization
of regular dental departments in responsible hospitals is rapidly becoming the
rule. The inclusion of systematic dental aid as a required branch of medical
care is urged here, therefore, because of its general hygienic effects, and
also because it will prove economical in the end by substituting early and
cheap satisfactory relief for delayed, expensive, and often harmful "gold
teeth."

MEDICAL AND SUBGICAL SUPPLIES

A difference of practice may also be observed in the furnishing of the material
aids to medical care— drugs, supplies, etc. In the voluntary system of Denmark
the furnishing even of drugs is optional, with very unsatisfactory results.
According to the latest data," more than half the societies (57 per cent)
entirely refused this service. Only 18 per cent paid for the entire cost; while
the remaining 25 per cent contributed only a part of the cost. Thus the results
of the voluntary system are seen to affect the quality of the service very
seriously by leaving an economic motive for saving on necessary drugs and
supplies. In both the British and German acts, the furnishing of drugs and
ordinary supplies is compulsory. As to the more expensive surgical and medical
appliances, the British act leaves the question of how far they shall be
furnished to administrative regulations by the insurance commissioners. The
German law, in accordance with its general methods of establishing minimum
standards only, makes the supply of " eyeglasses, trusses, and other minor
therapeutic appliances " compulsory upon the

5 Medical Benefit in Germany and Denmark, by I. G. Gibbon, p. 153.

sickness funds. In actual practice many German funds go far beyond that, and
provide artificial limbs, artificial eyes, etc. In Great Britain the situation
is unfortunately just the reverse. The actual practice, as established by
administrative regulations, is very inferior to the plain intent of the law, as
neither trusses and elastic stockings, nor crutches, and not even eyeglasses or
syringes, are furnished, not to speak of such " luxuries " as artificial limbs.

Perhaps nothing so strongly brings out the shortcomings of the British
Health-Insurance System as compared with what the German system has
accomplished, as this petty parsimony as to necessary supplies. A few
interesting figures from the report of the Leipzig Sick-Insurance Fund may here
be quoted." It is true that this is perhaps the largest and bestmanaged
sick-insurance fund in Germany with a membership exceeding 200,000, and
handling 90,000 cases of illness a year, but for this very reason its
experience is extremely valuable as an object lesson of what an efficient
system of health insurance is and ought to be. In addition to ordinary drugs
this insurance institution furnished during 1912 eyeglasses at the cost of
31,307 marks ($7,451), trusses, etc., to the amount of 34,716 marks ($8,262),
even artificial eyes (424 marks or $101). It administered 25,292 special
medicinal baths and massage treatments at the cost of the large sum of 75,327
marks

• OeschSfts-Bericht der Allgemeinen Ortskrankenkasse ftfr die Stadt Leipzig
fiir dm Jahr 1912.

($17,928) ; electric and other specialized methods of treatment (in Zander
institutes), at the cost of 48,233 marks ($11,479), and prosthetic dental work
for 26,688 marks ($6,352). Whether the amount was sufficiently large, it is
impossible to tell offhand; but the mental picture created by these statistical
data is of a thorough and careful treatment of the ailments and the needs of
the insured workmen. What a pitiful contrast is presented by the situation in
England when one reads the pathetic arguments of the Fabian Report, that the
English sufferers from hernia who are assured "adequate medical treatment"
under the law, continue to go about without trusses, unless able to buy one
from their own savings; that "a workman, forbidden to resume work without a
truss and yet given no truss, made himself a poor substitute out of cardboard
and rag, and went to work at whatever risk to his future health."

Take the matter of spectacles, for instance. The experience of the Leipzig fund
indicates that thousands of its members annually are in need of glasses, that
undoubtedly many of them would probably go without glasses or buy cheap and
injurious ones if not furnished by the insurance fund. Yet the failure to
provide proper accommodation by glasses not only must interfere with the
earning capacity of the sufferer, but leads, according to the evidence of
modern medical research, to serious disturbances of the nervous and even
digestive systems.

The limitations of the British system fully justify

the severe criticisms made by the Fabian committee. "Medical care " is nothing
but a delusion, unless the necessary mechanical appliances are available to
carry into effect the advice given by physicians. Some appliances may be
expensive, but it is just because they are expensive, and because they are
required in rare cases only, that they can be furnished by the insurance method
much more easily than by individual purchase. Moreover, as measured by the
amount of relief granted, and even by the restoration of earning capacity,
these appliances, as trusses, elastic stockings, eyeglasses, or even artificial
limbs, are the cheapest forms of surgical aid. A system of public health
insurance is derelict in its duty if it fails to make all possible efforts for
a cure, or at least alleviation of suffering, which modern medical science
permits. A normal act has, therefore, the choice of only two methods: either to
enumerate a very detailed, almost exhaustive list of permissible appliances to
be furnished according to proper medical advice, or to use the broad formula of
the Wisconsin compensation act, and to establish in plain terms the right to
all necessary aids to treatment.

INSTITUTIONAL TBEATMENT

The conditions outlined above may well apply to all communities. In regard to
the third group— namely, institutional treatment—the problem is somewhat more
complex.

Hospital treatment is becoming more and more important in dealing with serious
illness, partly for technical and partly for social reasons. There are diseases
which in the very nature of things require constant medical attention. It is
true that recently medical science has recognized certain disadvantages in
hospital treatment, and has indicated conditions under which home treatment may
be equally effective medically and more desirable for psychologic reasons. But
this may be realized only under conditions which are quite utopian as applied
to most workingmen's homes.

Ordinary hospital treatment is recognized as a necessity in almost all European
health-insurance systems. The Danish law requires the recognized societies to
furnish it whenever necessary, and some arrangements to supply it are made by
practically all societies. The legal requirement that hospital charges to the
recognized societies must be only half the regular charges proved a large
inducement. As general hospital facilities are good, there is seldom any
necessity for special hospitals for the exclusive use of the societies. While
the German act is not very exacting in its language, as a matter of fact there
has been a very extensive development of hospital treatment in connection with
the German system. Practically all important sickness funds furnish it, and in
many of them from 10 to 15 per cent of the total budget is expended for this
purpose.

The development of special sanatoria and convalescent homes has been largely
optional. Very little has been accomplished in Denmark; on the other hand, in
Germany, the development of such institutions, largely owned by the sickness
funds themselves, has been very rapid. Thus, e.g., the Leipzig fund has three
convalescent homes and a special Zander institute for treatment of functional
disorders by special exercises, Munich has two sanatoria, Hamburg two
convalescent homes, etc. This is entirely independent of the special
institutions established by the invalidity insurance institutes operating under
the old-age and invalidity insurance laws, which furnish a good deal of medical
aid to those insured. It is the invalidity institutes which have provided some
65 sanatoria for special treatment of tuberculosis, with very important
results.

The whole problem of institutional treatment in Great Britain is still in a
very unsatisfactory condition. The so-called sanatorium benefit is limited to
tuberculosis and such other diseases as the Local Government Board may
designate, but as yet no others seem to have been so designated. The sanatorium
benefit is therefore comparable to the tuberculosis treatment of the German
invalidity insurance, or would be, if in reality it were not so much inferior
to the standards of the law. The sanatorium benefit may be given in form of
dispensary or even home treatment, and in actual practice often resolves itself
only into supplementary allowances to the physician for medication in cases of
tuberculosis, which should be a constituent part of the ordinary medical aid.
The serious obstacle to the proper development of this benefit is the appalling
insufficiency of hospital facilities in Great Britain;7 but this, it was hoped,
would be gradually overcome through special appropriations for construction of
tuberculosis sanatoria. How far this program may be continued in face of the
financial problems created by the war remains to be seen. Nevertheless, even if
the reality is very much below the standards established by the law, it has
accomplished some good by attracting public attention to the lack of hospital
facilities, and creating a constant, urgent demand from the insured for
correction of this evil.

It is evident that in the regulation of institutional treatment, more than in
any other branch of medical care, a certain latitude may be allowed out of
consideration to "local conditions." Each state may decide for itself how far
institutional treatment may be made obligatory upon its health-insurance
system. If the state is territorially large, and conditions throughout are not
uniform, the actual extent of institutional treatment may be left to the funds
themselves, or to administrative regulation.

Nevertheless simple acceptance of prevailing con

* Modern sanitary science demands 5 beds for every 1000 Of population.
According to the researches of the Fabian Committee, London and the adjacent
counties have about 2 beds per 1000, some fifteen counties have from 1 to 2
beds, and most counties have even less than 1 per 1000.

ditions as necessarily final would be out of harmony with the constructive
character of this legislation. A modern community cannot claim any cultural
standing if hospital facilities for treatment of grave illness are
insufficient. Unless the geographical difficulties are very serious, or
population very sparse, and means of transportation unsatisfactory, an earnest
effort should be made, in conjunction with healthinsurance legislation, to
build up a sufficiency of hospital facilities. The same is true of special
sanatoria for consumption, while the further refinements, such as special
institutes and convalescent homes, may for the present be left to voluntary
communal effort. It may appear that the joining together of these two issues is
somewhat irrelevant, and that a state will, or will not, have sufficient
hospital facilities, irrespective of all health-insurance legislation. But the
obvious reply is that the insurance system creates a fund, out of which
hospital treatment for its members may be paid (as explained presently), that
this fund will be constituted largely through contributions from the insured
themselves, and that they have an implied right to be furnished with not only
purely formal "medical advice" but also effective medical aid. There are no
difficulties, except financial ones, to the increase of hospital facilities,
and the insurance system is designed for the very purpose of meeting such
financial difficulties.

CONDITIONS OF MEDICAL AID

Since insurance is a contractual obligation, some limitations are often
inevitable, but comparatively little need be said concerning the limitations of
medical benefits. In every insurance contract some time limits are necessary.
In private insurance the policy period and in collective insurance membership
in the insurance organization carry the natural limits, while under the system
as here outlined 8 membership itself depends upon employment in an insured
trade. Of course all benefits of membership must extend beyond the period of
active employment into the period of illness with payment of benefits. But such
extension is also subject to a limit, so long as the line of demarcation
between health insurance and invalidity insurance is accepted as already
explained. Just where this line of demarcation should be placed may be
discussed with better advantage in connection with the money benefits.

There may be a time limit at the beginning of illness as well, which under the
term of "waiting period" has become a distinct feature of compensation in the
United States. This, however, is obviously inapplicable to medical aid, where
promptness is a matter of greatest importance. Universally, therefore, the
right to medical aid begins with the beginning of illness.

Under the same term " waiting period " an entirely • See pages 35-38.

different time limit is often meant: namely, the time which must elapse after
the beginning of insurance before the right to the benefits is free from all
restrictions. Strictly speaking, it is a period of probation, during which the
insured person is really not insured though he may pay the necessary dues. Such
a provision may be necessary under a voluntary system for the purpose of
eliminating persons who might insure because they know themselves to be sick.
In the Danish voluntary system such a "waiting period" of six weeks is
required. But while there may be some important reason for such a period of
"suspended insurance" so far as the payment of money benefits is concerned, it
appears altogether unnecessary in application to medical aid. The possible
abuse of the medical-aid privilege is far less important than the danger of
denying aid to any one in real need of it.

A considerable amount of medical aid may be needed, moreover, in cases not
requiring any discontinuance of work. In such cases any limitations upon the
amount of medical aid to be furnished would be socially indefensible, since the
hygienic effect of such aid would counterbalance any consideration of excessive
cost.

EXTENSION TO MEMBEKS OF FAMILY

Shall medical treatment be limited to the insured workers or shall it be
extended to the immediate dependents of the insured? At first, such an
extension may be considered as altogether unwarranted. Health insurance as here
outlined deals with the disabled wage-earner. The entire philosophy of social
insurance is based upon the causal connection between employment and disability
on one hand and between disability and unemployment on the other. The inclusion
of insurance of others, even though they be members of the family, will be
classed as a gratuitous application of socialist policy, and as isuch wiH call
forth serious objections. Already this tendency has been disclosed in many
private conferences concerning standards of health insurance.

Nevertheless, a strong inclination to include dependents is observable in all
compulsory health-insurance systems. The German insurance code grants this
among the many permissible extensions of the sphere of activity of the sickness
funds, and the majority of the larger funds have done so, as, for example, in
Leipzig, Dresden, Frankfort, Bremen, Hannover, Diisseldorf, Strassburg,
Cologne, Essen, Mainz, Kiel, etc. Less common is a similar extension of the
drugs and supplies benefit, but that, too, is found in many cities, such as
Leipzig, Dresden, Hannover, Mainz, and Kiel, while in Cologne, Essen, and some
other cities half of their cost is met by the fund. In Denmark, though the
system is optional, medical and hospital treatment to dependent children under
fifteen years of age is one of the required benefits of the recognized
societies. In the British act "medical treatment and attendance for any^ person
dependent upon the labor of a member" is the first of the additional benefits,
which may be instituted by any approved society which shows a disposable
surplus after valuation, though as yet this British provision is only a dead
letter.

The demands of life evidently appear stronger than any theoretical
constructions. A purely formal connection between the insurance of the
wage-worker and that of the members of his family may be lacking, but the
social advantages of utilizing the established medical organization for the
benefit of the entire working population are so great that any logical
inconsistency may be calmly disregarded. The drawbacks of the present
disorganized system of providing the poorer classes with medical aid are so
palpable that it would be criminal to leave it undisturbed in the case of the
wife and children of the breadwinner, in face of a system established
presumably for his benefit. The entire purpose of this system is to eliminate
any economic obstacle to the work of preservation of life and health, and
surely the life and health of the wives and of the coming generation are of
social value at least equal to the life and health of the laborers. With from
250,000 to 300,000 children dying annually in this country under the age of
one, another 100,000 before 5, and perhaps some 90,000 in ages from 5 to 19,'
the tremendous value of any improvement in preventive as well as curative
medicine can hardly be exaggerated. That the workingman's family needs such aid
no less than he it seems unnecessary to argue. And while the families of the
insured may not need it more than the rest of the population, the fact that a
comprehensive system must be organized for the head of the family is a
sufficient social argument for extending the benefits to such persons at least
as naturally and easily fall into the same group.

Perhaps some objection to such extension may come from the medical profession,
because this measure would represent a further, and for most of them a final,
encroachment upon the domain of private practice, as at present conducted. The
state will have to face this issue and to decide whether the conditions of
practice of medicine should be adjusted to the needs of the people's health or
whether these should yield to the conservatism of the medical profession.

That as a matter of fact the opposition to such extension is short-sighted, so
far even as the interests of the medical profession are concerned, will appear
when the questions of medical organization are discussed. It is sufficient to
state at this point that at the hearing on the Mills Bill at Albany on March

• The figures for 1913, covering only the registration area, with 65 per cent
of the population, are: 159,435 under 1 year, 65,694 at age over 1 and under 5,
and 54,779 at ages 5 to 19.

14, 1916, Dr. Alexander Lambert, representing the American Medical Association,
urged such extension of the medical benefits to the family of the insured, as
an amendment to the Mills Bill.

VI

MONEY BENEFIT

The student of social problems may advocate health insurance largely with the
view toward its ultimate effects upon the improvement of the health of the
community, and often is concerned more with the organization and socialization
of medicine, with the provision for proper sanitarium treatment which may be
necessary for complete recovery from a lingering illness, etc., than the
immediate financial relief. The insured workman himself almost invariably looks
upon the insurance plan from an entirely different angle, and while admitting
in a half-hearted way that the medical feature has its value, is very much more
concerned with the size of the weekly benefit he may expect when he is
compelled to "lay off" because of ill health. This attitude is shown by the
almost complete absence of the medical benefit from most voluntary sickness
benefit or healthinsurance schemes organized by the American working class
(trade union benefit funds, fraternal orders, etc.) or patronized by it
(industrial health insurance). In so far as co-operative organizations for
granting medical aid (lodges, etc.) exist, they are prevalent chiefly among
certain immigrant elements (Russians, Jews, Italians), and even then concern
themselves largely with the treatment of the women and children. The approval
of jiny_ scheme proposed by the workers will largely depend upon the provisions
for sick benefit. The size of the latter will determine whether the sick worker
will escape the mental anguish resulting from inability to provide for his
family, whether illness will create a financial crisis in his status from which
recovery is painful and slow, or whether it may be weathered in a cheerful and
optimistic spirit.

But even from the point of view of preventive results the level of the sick
benefit is a matter of great importance. Unless it is sufficiently large to
provide at least the urgent needs, a motive will remain to return to work long
before complete recuperation has taken place, and thus the effect of the
health-insurance scheme in preserving life and health will be interfered with.

Until the advent of the British national health

■ insurance system, benefits computed in proportion to wages were practically
the uniform practice of com-_

jpulsory systems. The British act was the first to * introduce a uniform scale
of benefits for all. The * practice of voluntary health-insurance
organizations, on the contrary, tends more toward uniform scales.

Thus in the American health-insurance schemes of various types the rate of
weekly benefits is almost universally a specified amount. Of the 19 national
unions which had temporary disability provisions at the time a federal
investigation of these benefit features was made,1 17 granted $5 a week, and 2,
$6 a week. Of the 346 local funds granting such benefits described in the same
report, all gave specified benefits, varying between $2 and $10, but the
predominating rate in over one-half of them was $5 a week. The same holds true
of most establishment funds, the predominating rate being $5 or $6, though
occasionally it rose higher—even to $25.2

It does not help much to point out that in the British system the contributions
are uniform and therefore the benefits are uniform. That the same principle
should govern both contributions and benefits must be conceded at once. But
which principle should it be?

The comparative advantages of these two methods of compensation or insurance
have already been discussed at some length in this country in connection with
accident compensation. The two methods rest upon somewhat different theoretical
foundations. If 1 the sick benefit be considered in its insurance aspects, as
compensation for loss sustained, the benefit should be a factor of wages, if it
does not cover the entire loss. Proportionate insurance, when the insured
person (or the owner of the insurefl property) remains a co-insurer, is known
in all branches of

1 Twenty-third Annual Report of the (U. 8.) Commissioner of Labor. "Workmen's
Insurance and Benefit Funds in the U. S.," 1908, p. 43.

* Twenty-third Annual Report of the (V. 8.) Commissioner of Labor, n. 409.

property insurance. An entirely different theory is, however, frequently
advocated, which may be designated as the theory of social need. Social
insurance, according to this theory, does not aim at individual justice, is not
concerned with an arithmetically accurate restitution of loss, but with the
elimination of social ills—primarily that destitution which follows in the wake
of impaired health. In determining the amount of benefits to be granted, the
decisive factor should not be the wage loss^but the need created. And the basic
need of physiological necessities does not depend upon the wage level, but
possibly upon other considerations, such as the size of the family. Therefore
the amount of benefit should be uniform, or possibly be adjusted to the number
of dependents. But whatever the comparative merits of these two theories, the
decision as to the due course of procedure is a practical one, and must be
based on practical considerations.

A uniform scale has certain advantages of simplicity, but very few other
advantages. The wageworkers do not all live according to the same standard, and
presumably there is some proportion between earnings and needs. It is true that
in case of workingmen of very low earning power a benefit based upon a fraction
of wages may be too small even for the essential demands, but provisions for a
minimum to meet this situation have already become familiar to American
legislatures through compensation acts. Onrihe other hand, the flat uniform
scale of benefits

would either be too high for large groups of wageworkers and offer an
inducement to malingery, or too low to be a measure of substantial relief to
the better-paid workers. Especially are the arguments against one uniform scale
strong in the United States. The extent of wage variations is probably very
much greater in this country than in Europe, where fairly uniform conditions
prevail. Within one state and even one city, common wage variations may be
between $4 and $40 a week. Under such circumstances the problem of establishing
one uniform and fair scale of benefit is a difficult one.

Judging from the experience of our compensation legislation, the actual scale
of benefits may prove the gravest point of contention when legislative work
seriously begins. Comparisons of what is being done in Europe may be offset by
a natural tendency to follow standards already established in regard to
accident compensation, since essentially the problems are identical so far as
the needs of the family are concerned.

In European voluntary systems the benefits, as a rule, are entirely too low. An
insurance system requires a careful balancing of income and outgo, of financial
resources, and benefits payable. When required to carry the entire burden or
when, as in Denmark, receiving only a small subsidy, the insured workman is
unable to provide the cost of liberal benefits. In Denmark the actual amount is
left to the discretion of the fund, with a minimum limit of 40 ore (11 cents)
per day, and a maximum of twothirds of the wages. As a matter of fact over 70
per cent were granting only 40 to 60 ore (11 to 16 cents) and only 12 per cent
1 krone (26.8 cents) or a little over. This sufficiently measures the limited
efficiency of voluntary systems. The British scale is pretty well known (10s.
for men and 7s. 6d. for women, per week, with somewhat reduced rates for
certain groups). In view of the actuarial rigidity of the British law, there
are various other reductions to be made under all sorts of conditions which may
influence the actuarial solvency of the funds, for, since the scale of
contributions is rigid, adjustment, according to the law, must eventually be
made through reduction in the benefit scale. Even if the actuarial basis of the
system could prove accurate on the average, it was inevitable that shortages
would be discovered, so that benefits may be reduced in many societies. This
aspect of the situation will require a separate discussion in due place.

Where benefits are adjusted in proportion to wages, the usual amount is
one-half of the wages, as in Germany, though not the actual wage of the . sick,
but an average or basic group wage, is meant. Different basic wages for groups
of insured of the same fund may be provided, but the basic wage must not exceed
5 marks ($1.19) per diem. The maximum normal sick benefit therefore is 60 cents
per diem, or $3.60 a week.

The same 50 per cent scale is found in most other compulsory acts, as those of
Hungary, Russia, Luxemburg, Servia, and Roumania, the latter, however, trying
to adjust the amount to economic needs by cutting it down to 35 per cent for
single workers.

There is a curious tradition that in matters of social legislation we need not
go above the minimum which European experience indicates. It is well known what
pernicious influence the highly unsatisfactory British compensation act has
exercised upon American legislation. The minimum German scale of 50 per cent
should not, however, be accepted as the final word of Europe. Both Austria and
Norway have made it 60 per cent. Finally the most recent act of Holland has
established a 70 per cent scale. In Germany permission is given by the law to
increase the benefit up to 75 per cent. Some 10 per cent of the German funds,
representing a very much larger proportion of the membership, have increased it
to 66 2-3 per cent, and perhaps some 2 per cent even to a larger amount up to
the legally permissible limit. There is, therefore, a strong feeling that 50
per cent is insufficient, and that the rate of sick benefits should be raised
to the level of accident compensation. In the brief experience of American
compensation enough evidence has already accumulated to prove that 50 per cent
is insufficient to prevent poverty and an appeal to charitable relief."

* See Three Years Under the New Jersey Workmen's Compensation Law. Report of an
investigation under the direc

It must be quite evident that as far as the economic problem concerned is
created it makes very little difference to the workman or his dependents
whether his disability is due to illness or an accidental injury, or, to carry
the point further, whether it is due to an industrial or non-industrial
accident, the former calling for compensation and the latter for a sick
benefit. And while 50 per cent of the wages still remains the predominating
scale of the American compensation acts (22 acts out of 34), it equals 55 per
cent in Indiana, 60 per cent in Hawaii and Texas, 65 per cent in California and
Wisconsin, and 66 2-3 per cent in Massachusetts, New York, and Ohio.
Substantially the " two-thirds " scale has been recognized in 5 states; the
most significant feature being the change from 50 per cent to 66 2-3 per cent
in Massachusetts in 1914, after only two years' experimentation with the 50 per
cent scale, which was thus definitely pronounced inadequate.

It is true that on certain wage levels a two-thirds scale would be palpably
insufficient. Without going here into tedious data on wage statistics, the
growing movement for minimum wage legislation is sufficient evidence that in
many industries, especially those employing female labor, the wages are
insufficient to provide even the minimum physiological standard. Very likely
for many members of these

tion of the Social Insurance Committee of the American Association for Labor
Legislation, New York, 1915; especially pp. 37-42.

wage groups two-thirds benefit may prove rather meager. The customary
provisions for minimum benefits (usually $5 or $6 a week, occasionally $4, or
full wages when they do not reach even the level of minimum benefits) which are
so common in American compensation acts represent a distinct contribution to
the theory and practice of compensation. There is no reason why, on the whole,
these provisions as to the minimum amounts should not be carried over into
health-insurance acts.

And yet, at the chance of appearing somewhat too conservative in this matter,
the writer feels constrained to suggest that a little greater care must be
exercised in applying these minima. The one possible objection to such minima
is the possibility of the compensation or sick benefit equaling the normal wage
or so nearly approaching it that an unnecessary stimulus to malingering or
simulation, or at least what has been called valitudinarianism (or unconscious
exaggeration of ailments), may be created. While this danger is usually
exaggerated with malicious intent to injure the social-insurance movement, it
cannot honestly be altogether denied. In case of accidental injuries (whether
due to industrial or non-industrial causes) there are usually objective facts,
by observation of which these tendencies may be overcome. In health insurance
the problem is somewhat more difficult to meet. Instead of a flat minimum of
$5, $6, or even $6.50, it may be more desirable to provide a sliding scale,
which will

leave some margin between the wages and the sick benefit and thus some economic
motives for termination of the disability period. Of course a rational sliding
scale is difficult to construct. All such scales must be somewhat arbitrary.
The following scale is offered, not as an ironclad standard, but rather as a
basis of discussion and an illustration of the principle involved:

[table]

The principle of a maximum provision is more easily disposed of. Such provision
is found in almost all American compensation acts; the usual levels are $10 or
$12—only seldom do they fall to $8 (Colorado) or rise to $15 (Kansas, Texas) or
even higher. The argument for such limitations is purely financial, to save
cost to the employer. It has nothing whatever to do with the social theory of
compensation. With a scale of 66 2-3 per cent, a $12 maximum hits every worker
earning above $18; a $10 maximum hits even every one earning over $15. Such
narrow limits are altogether undesirable. Since both the benefits and
contributions are based upon a percentage of earnings, the limits are unfair to
the members of these higher-wage groups. But a much better and logical basis
for a maximum limit exists. We have argued (on page 38) that clerical employees
earning over $1,200 a year (or approximately $28 a week) may be excluded from
the operations of the compulsory system. Thus no clerical employee would
receive more than $15.33 a week in sick benefits. No such limitations were
established for the manual wage-workers, mainly because of the fluctuations and
irregularity of the wage-worker's earnings. But with very good logic a uniform
maximum sick benefit of $15 may be embodied in the act.

DURATION OF BENEFITS

How long should sick benefits be payable? The somewhat artificial but necessary
line of demarcation between sickness and invalidity insurance has already been
indicated. Just at what point the line is to be drawn must be decided upon
somewhat arbitrarily. In Denmark, recognized funds are required to grant sick
benefits for at least 13 weeks within one year. No maximum is prescribed by the
law. In actual practice, some 60 per cent have retained the required minimum,
about 25 per cent have increased it to various periods under 26 weeks, and the
remaining 15 per cent have made it just 26 weeks. Practically no funds (with
one or two exceptions) have gone beyond this limit.

In Germany, the original minimum period was 18 weeks, but was raised by the act
of 1903 to 26 weeks. The local funds have the right to increase this period to
52 weeks, and may, in addition, provide for treatment of convalescents for
another year. The German experience indicates that, with a healthy democratic
organization of sickness funds, voluntary extension of the minimum limit is not
at all rare, but nevertheless the legal requirement determines the
predominating type. In 1885, 80 per cent of the funds kept to the minimum
limit, and by 1903 about 75 per cent, several thousand funds increasing the
time to longer periods up to 26 weeks. Since the raising of the legal
requirement less than 1,000 funds pay for from 26 to 52 weeks, these being
largely establishment funds.

t In Great Britain the line of demarcation between / "sickness" and
"disablement" (invalidity) benefits / is drawn at the conclusion of 26 weeks.

In Austria and Hungary the limit is somewhat shorter,—20 weeks,—though a
further extension of this minimum requirement ha« been discussed for nearly 10
years. Both in Norway and in Russia the same 26 weeks' limit prevails. Only in
Roumania it is shorter—16 weeks only. European experience, therefore, places a
certain stamp of official approval upon this dividing line.

There is no mysterious significance attached to the half-year period. But the
only logical basis for determining the proper limit is the separation of cases
of illness from those of chronic invalidity. A 13 weeks' period, according to
available data, would leave some 3 1-2 per cent of the cases without aid
perhaps at the time when such aid is most important. The number of cases
extending beyond 26 weeks is only 6 per 1,000, and includes little besides
cases of chronic invalidity.

On the other hand, the extension of time from 13 to 26 weeks can be granted at
a comparatively slight cost. An analysis of statistics of the Leipzig fund
(perhaps the best available and covering almost 90,000 cases of illness per
annum ) seems to indicate that the additional number of sick days which become
compensable because of an extension from 13 to 26 weeks constitutes only a
little over 5 per cent of the total. Protracted illness may require a higher
expenditure for expert medical aid, hospitals, convalescent homes, etc. In any
case the additional loading must represent very much less than 10 per cent.

WAITING PERIODS

A time limitation, of a somewhat different kind, is usually established also
for the beginning of the case of illness, known technically in compensation
legislation as a waiting period. With the natural tendency to draw upon
compensation experience in shaping insurance standards, the question may become
more acute than it ever did in Europe. To prevent administrative difficulties
out of proportion to the economic loss of very brief periods of illness, and
also to prevent a certain form of malingering, due to occasional debauch, a
brief waiting period is advisable, during which money benefits (but not medical
aid) may be denied. In Germany the law establishes a 3 days' period, though the
local funds may shorten or remove it altogether. The period is also placed at 3
days in Great Britain, while in Denmark the voluntary funds are permitted (but
not required) to have a waiting period up to 7 days. Unfortunately, in American
compensation acts a longer waiting period (7 days in a few acts and 14 days in
most) has become the rule. A similar tendency in sicknessinsurance acts is
certain to appear. It should be energetically contested.

The majority of cases of illness would fall within so long a period, and denial
of benefits for all such cases would go far to discredit the entire system in
the eyes of the workers.* Moreover, there is this distinction between accidents
and sickness, that repeated injuries to the same individual are exc£ptional_w^
hile^ repeated attacks of short periods of illness are not at all rare.
Numerous recent wage investigations have established beyond any doubt that the
omission of even

* According to the experience of the Leipzig sick fund in 1912, 47.4 per cent
of all cases lasted less than 2 weeks, after excluding cases under 3 days.

one pay envelope may be a serious matter to thousands of workers, and an
interval of 8 weeks between one pay day and another may often spell ruin to a
family or call for charitable assistance. The watchword of social insurance
should be "Not a week without a pay envelope." A 3 days' waiting period is all
that the entire experience of sickness insurance justifies.

The same term "waiting period" is often used to define a different limitation,
namely the requirement of a certain period of insurance before the right to
benefits is acquired.

Under a voluntary insurance system this requirement may be advisable as a
method of protecting the funds against unfavorable selection of risks. In
Denmark, the determination of such a time limit is left to the various funds.
Under a compulsory system such a waiting time is neither actuarially necessary
nor socially just, since membership necessarily follows upon employment, and
the average degree of health of persons actually employed cannot be influenced
by any one individual's act. Nevertheless, the British act provides that no
sickness benefits can be paid until the expiration of 26 weeks of paid-up
insurance. It will be remembered that the actual payments of benefits did not
begin until 6 months after the collection of contributions began, and in this
way a substantial working capital was accumulated. As a temporary fiscal
measure, this may have been justified, though some doubt may be entertained
whether the advantages derived proved a sufficient compensation for the amount
of popular irritation created. The preservation of the same rule seems much
less justified. However, since membership is compulsory and only one waiting
period during the entire life of the insured is required, the regulation will
affect only very young persons, and the amount of distress caused by this
provision is probably small.

Finally, the German law specially prohibits any provision for a waiting period
of this character, though in case of voluntary members a period not to exceed 6
weeks is permitted. Here again the German precedent is the one that should be
followed.

Of course the possibility of imposing upon the health-insurance fund if not for
feigned illness then at least for chronic disability or invalidity is not
entirely eliminated by making insurance automatically follow employment. If
insurance is thus made to lose all aspects of a voluntary act, employment does
not. If insurance with all its benefits be made to follow employment no matter
how short, and since 26 weeks of sick pay is one of the benefits, 2 weeks of
work during the year might create the right to 52 weeks of sick benefits and
thus invalidity insurance be smuggled into the system. Even a true invalid for
whom regular employment is either impossible, or if possible, decidedly
injurious, may make the extraordinary effort to return to work for a week or
two if in this way all his benefit rights, already expired through time limits,
might be renewed.

It becomes necessary, therefore, to^siahlisb-flihex. limitationsofa somewhat
involved nature^ so as to prevent the abuse of the system by the clever and
ingenious few. It is not only the financial loss, perhaps actuarially slight,
that is involved. But nothing injures the popularity of any act of social
legislation, especially in its initial stages, as does evidence that it permits
abuses and invites deception.

The British rule in respect of this problem is rather complicated. Since the
British system provides for both invalidity and sick benefits, the extent
beyond the initial 26 weeks results (after the invalidity or "disablement"
benefits were put into force) not in the discontinuance but only rPrlii^t;TMr,
TMf +v»p w^ltly benefit. But suppose a short period of employment intervenes.
Shall the following period of illness be compensated for as sickness (10*.) or
disablement (5s.)? The rule established by the act demands that consecutive"
(even if interrupted) periods of disability be counted as one, unless a period
of 50 weeks of actual employment and 50 contributions has intervened.

It is questionable whether this rule would always work out fairly to the
insured. Suppose he were subject to short periods of illness interrupted by
more or less prolonged periods of employment. If these periods were each much
less than 50 weeks v long, then sooner or later the 26 weeks would be
exhausted, and subsequent benefits would be only at half the regular rate.

Surely there would be no justice in such an arbitrary limitation. Compare it
with the extremely liberal provisions of the German Insurance Code on the same
point. The organic provision establishes no limitation except that consecutive
benefits in any one case are not paid for over 26 weeks (Article 183). By
another provision (Article 188) the separate insurance carriers are only
permitted (not required) to embody within their constitution a rule that after
sick benefits are paid for 26 weeks (either successively or collectively during
12 months) the benefits for the next 12 months for a new case of illness shall
be limited to 13 weeks. Even this mild restriction is inapplicable when the new
case of illness has no connection at all with the old illness.

With such differences in standards to face us, the decision as to the right
rule must be based upon a priori reasoning rather than precedent. Theob^ ject
of the rule is to prevent invalidity benefits to be paidunder the disguise of
sick benefits. It should not aim at the innocent sufferer who happened to be
hit by two consecutive cases of illness in rapid succession. It only
requiresjthat the _new_ca.se be com

pensated On the bl,fijg "f a hrmn firlp rpfoypry grid

return to work after the earlier illness. A single rule that not over 26 weeks
of money benefits be paid during any consecutive 12 months may produce the
desirable results, though it may leave 6 months following the receipts of the
maximum benefit practically without coverage. The German rule, that this
particular limitation may be entirely disregarded when the new case represents
an entirely new illness and not a failure of the older one to recover, would
seem to be worthy of emulation, as essentially fair. Private insurance, whether
of persons or property, may well have the advantage of canceling risks with bad
experience because its entire success often depends upon an efficient selection
of superstandard risks, and because without this selective process it would
fall a ready victim to adverse selection of substandard ones. But compulsory
public insurance must waive the privilege of selection, just as it is free from
any serious danger of adverse selection.

SICK BENEFITS IN CONNECTION WITH HOSPITAL CARE

It is not the intention of the writer to lumber up this discussion of broad
essential standards with questions of detail and minor importance.

But it is important to discuss at this place at least briefly one or two
aspects as yet not touched upon. Medical aid in our scheme is furnished in
kind. The cash benefit is given to furnish food and other necessities. But
suppose the patient, on account of the gravity of his situation, has been
removed to a hospital, where, in addition to medical attendance and supplies,
fuel and shelter are also provided? Shall the sick money benefit go on in the
same way, even though perhaps not needed? And if it be discontinued how shall
the needs of the family be met?

The argument is often made in favor of discontinuance that the cost of hospital
attendance is usually higher than the combined cost of the sick benefit and
ordinary medical aid. It is very doubtful whether this plea is at all correct
if cases of sufficient gravity be compared, because a hospital may furnish the
necessary variety of medical aid appliances and nursing very much cheaper than
could be done in a private home. But the argument is altogether irrelevant
actuarially, so long as the hospital benefit is granted as an additional
benefit and not in substitution for other benefits.

The answer to the problem must be based primarily upon social considerations.
What is needed in the cases concerned? And what are the results of this or that
policy that may be expected? Obviously, the single man, without dependents, has
no need of his full money benefit while staying in the hospital, perhaps has no
urgent need of any sick benefit at all.

The case is very different if the patient has a family or other dependents. The
sick benefit is intended to compensate them as well as the workman himself, and
hospital care to the latter will not feed the hungry wife and children. In such
cases the German law prescribes the payment of one-half the regular benefit
(usually one-fourth of the wages) to the dependents directly. The bill of the
American Association of Labor Legislation (known in New York as the Mills Bill)
followed this standard, requiring the payment of a benefit equal to 33 1-3 per
cent of the wages. Criticism of this amount as utterly inadequate has already
reached the writer, and the justice of the criticism must be admitted. Few
wages there are, of which a third would provide even for the bare necessaries
of an average-sized family. Besides, not the cost of the ill workman's stay in
a hospital, but rather the possible saving effected by the family on account of
his absence, should be the basis of the reduction of the normal sick benefit to
a lower level. Surely the married workman does not claim onehalf of the normal
expenditures of a normal family. Even one-fourth would be a fairly liberal
estimate. And from this point of view a reduction of the sick benefit from 66
2-3 per cent to 50 per cent would be all that is justified.

There is, however, another circumstance to be taken into consideration. What is
the possible indirect effect of any decision upon this point upon the
willingness of the patient to go to a hospital? It is difficult, even somewhat
cruel, to send him to the hospital against his wishes, though sometimes it may
be absolutely necessary for his own good (serious operation) or the good of his
neighbors (infectious disease). But it is undesirable to stimulate a tendency
to go to the hospital when conditions do not call for it. It is an unnecessary
expense. It may preoccupy necessary hospital space. Of course this should be
regulated by special administrative measures. But the indirect effect of
economic motive is difficult to counteract. If the family may benefit
financially by the transfer of the patient to the hospital, this will be done
frequently. If, on the other hand, the removal to the hospital would mean a
starvation allowance for the family, this will be resisted even while seriously
needed. From this point of view the " one-half of regular benefit " provision
may work extremely unfairly, and a reduction of only one-fourth or at most
one-third (from 66 2-3 per cent to 44 1-3 per cent, or roughly 45 per cent) is
very much more consistent. Again, here too a sliding scale may be constructed
of 33 1-3 for the wife, without children or other dependents, and an
[additional 81-3 per cent for each additional dependent up to the maximum 50
per cent. The question is one of detail, to be sure. But it is upon a mass of
such details that the success of every legislative act depends.

VII

MATERNITY BENEFIT

Within recent years maternity insurance has acquired the dignity of a separate
branch of social insurance. An enormous literature has grown up concerning it,1
and the demands for it, especially from the radical branch of the modern
woman's movement, are insistent. It is significant, for instance, that it was
to represent one of the important questions to be taken up by the International
Socialist Congress which was to gather at Vienna in August of 1914. And yet
curiously enough, with two or three exceptions, maternity benefits in actual
practice constitute one of the services of a compulsory healthinsurance plan, ^
ftl^ujJk j*fr*tJk

1 The most exhaustive work on maternity insurance by Madame Alexandra
Kollontai, which has recently appeared, is unfortunately written in Russian,
and thus not available to the average American reader (State Insurance of
Motherhood, being Vol. I of Society and Motherhood, in Russian. Petrograd,
1916, pp. 641). It also contains a splendid bibliography of Russian, German,
English, French, Italian, and Finnish works. The writer is informed by Mrs.
Kollontai that a German edition of the work, nearly ready, was interrupted by
the war, but may eventually appear. See also the selected bibliography compiled
by Dr. Lee K. Frankel (" Maternity Insurance," New York Medical Journal, Dec.
18, 1915).

The Italian method of handling its problem through an independent system and
institution has been frequently described in American literature.2 In addition
France and Australia have established independent systems of maternity
benefits, of which more will be stated presently. In none of these countries,
however, does a general compulsory healthinsurance system exist. But wherever
both general compulsory sickness insurance and maternity insurance exist, they
are found C"ir^lr,orl into r"xo administrative system. Furthermore, it is also
true that mafermTy~benefits of some kind or other are given practically in
connection with every existing system of compulsory health insurance. Besides
the administrative advantages of such a combination of functions, the inherent
relationship is quite obvious, at least as far as the short period of
child-bearing is concerned. The question whether child-bearing, being a
physiological process, should be properly classified with sickness is a
somewhat academic! Wie. It requires medical aid. It produces temporary
disability. That is sufficient to put it into the category of emergencies that
a health-insurance system should deal with.

But the fact that an independent campaign for maternity insurance exists and in
some countries existed 10 or 20 years indicates specific^economic causes which
force this problem upon the civic body in industrial-states.

'See Frankel's bibliography.

The function of maternity insurance may be analyzed under the following live
headings, corresponding to the five causes of economic loss, connected with
childbirth: (a) extraordinary expenditures for medical aid and supplies
connected with childbirth; (b) the period of enforced idleness and the
consequent loss of wages; (c) the necessary period of rest before childbirth,
to preserve the health of the mother; (d) the equally necessary period of rest
after childbirth, for the purpose of both strengthening the mother and
improving the chances of the child; and (e) the assumed "right of the child to
its mother," which right and need can only be satisfied by, at the least,
temporary withdrawal of the working mother from regular remunerative
employment. It is in the last, fifth function that the limits of health
insurance, or at least sickness insurance, are crossed. For the period during
which the newborn child may profit, first by breast feeding and subsequently by
personal attendance of its mother, extends perhaps for years, and surely far
beyond inevitable disability of the mother.

Thus maternity insurance, or perhaps its broader form, motherhood insurance,
may, theoretically, merge into state endowment of motherhood. It is from this
broader point of view that maternity insurance is advocated by the radical
feminists of Europe, as a transitory step to a much more comprehensive system
of prolonged motherhood pensions. State endowment of motherhood is advanced not
only as a measure of economic necessity for prevention of destitution, but also
as a social measure "aiming at the emancipation of the child-bearing woman from
her economic dependence upon man." 3

At this place, however, it is unprofitable to enter into the discussion of that
broad and fascinating problem. Maternity insurance is ap«lY7pf^ ^prp xu*^g* as^
anaspect of disability or sjcknpss insurance, and if a technical distinction is
desirable, such may readily be drawn between maternity insurance (covering the
act of childbirth and the short periods of time immediately preceding and
succeeding it—i. e., the disability more or less directly connected with
child-bearing) and motherhood insurance, (covering the female function of
child-rearing). The line of distinction is not hard and fast, it may be even
called arbitrary, but this it shares with most artificial lines of distinction,
such as for instance the distinction between sickness and invalidity drawn at
the # expiration of 26 weeks of disability.

But even within this narrower limitation, maternity j benefits have several
features distinct from ordinary health insurance, because the prophylactic
factor is of greater importance and because the interests of the future
generation are also directly concerned, for neglect within the first weeks or
months of the infant's life is a strong factor of infant mortality.

There are three distinct aspects to the economic * See Kollontai, loc cit., p.
230.

problem confronting the mother in the wage-working class: (1) that of the
married woman worker who combines the duty of a wage-earner with those of a
housewife, or at least a wife, and is in most cases only partially dependent
upon her earnings; (2) t.bnt ,«£ the unmarried*wagejfiagnjng mother; (8) that
of the wage-earner's wife who is " not gainfully employed" in the sense of not
bringing any money revenue into the family treasury.

The distinction between the first and second aspects is largely a moral one,
that between the first two and the third primarily an economic one. The moral
problem involved should be easily disposed of.

Within the last decade a noticeable revolution has taken place in the moral
viewpoint, if not the moral philosophy, of American society, which is at least
bold enough to face sex problems frankly. The unmarried mother is in Europe a
significant social fact, and numerically an important factor in its population.
In Germany, for instancj^jwmeJ18(),00_0 children,—8 per cent, of the total.—are
annually born flyj nt TMorllncfr As is to be expected, the wageworking woman,
or at least the woman of the wageworking class, shows the highest rate of
illegitimacy. Whether, as the radical feminist wing is ready to assert, this
represents an active and powerful tendency for abolition of the "bourgeois"
family and the assertion of the " free woman's right to motherhood," or is the
result of the breakdown of moral standards due to poverty, ignorance, and
overwork, as an American social worker would insist, makes much less difference
than the vital fact that these 180,000 women are mothers and that the "
illegitimate babies" have a right to grow into healthy and useful citizens of
their country.

Motherhood out of wedlock is by far not as frequent here as it is in Europe,
but so long as it exists the economic consequences must be provided for. The
social-insurance movement has or should have no official point of view on
matters of sexual morality. The important thing is that the unmarried mother's
health and her child's life must be taken care of. The economic need in her
case is greatest. The only / fair way of handling this problem is by entirely
omit

/ ting in the act any reference to distinctions between

/ legitimate and illegitimate births.

'As between the employed, self-supporting woman and the dependent wife of a
wage-worker, there are material economic differences. In most cases of the
latter type economic losses resulting from enforced idleness are not so large
or important, except possibly for the cost of hiring some help during a short
period, when neighborly help is lacking, and the numerous purchases that must
be made for the sake of the infant. Therefore, the main, pressing need is ) for
medical aid and supplies, and this may be inter

/ preted sufficiently broadly to include most of those extraordinary
expenditures.

A careful study of the literature of maternity insurance, especially the
literature in advocacy of the measure, proves that the explanation of the
movement must be looked for primarily in the recent development of female
wage-labor. Maternity insurance forms a natural sequel to legislation
prohibiting wage-work to women for some definite time before and after
maternity.

The argument, repeated in hundreds of pamphlets and supported by a wealth of
statistical and physiological data, though essentially obvious and scarcely
calling for proof, is that—

1. Wage-work, calling for strenuous and protracted effort, is injurious to the
prospective mother at least for some time before childbirth.

2. Anything which injures the health of the mother also injures the health of
the child about to be born.

3. Breast feeding by a healthy mother is the most important factor preventing
infant mortality, which even in civilized Germany reaches 15 per cent during
the first year of the infant's life.

For the wife of a steadily employed working-man the problem of childbirth may
not be so critical and tragic, at least in the majority of cases. But even
within its narrower limitations, a real problem exists at least in some
countries. To one who may be inclined to doubt it, the perusal may be
recommended of a little book,4 recently published in England, containing 160
simple letters from working-men's wives,

4 Maternity. Letters from working-women collected by the Women's Cooperative
Guild. London, 1915.

describing the horrible conditions of discomfort, want, mental anguish,
ignorance, and neglect, under which to-day children are born in England,
conditions leading to fearful infant mortality on one side and lifelong
suffering and invalidism of mothers on the other.

How great the need for relief of these conditions is in Europe, the rapid
development of maternity insurance demonstrates. But as to the actual methods
and results there is a considerable variety in European practice. In fact,
altogether 14 systems of maternity insurance may at present be recognized, and
10 of them are in connection with compulsory health-insurance systems (Germany,
Austria, Hungary, Great Britain, Russia, Norway, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Servia,
Roumania, Luxemburg). Italy has an independent system of compulsory maternity
insurance, in Switzerland maternity insurance is a feature of the comprehensive
but voluntary sickness-insurance system, and finally France and Australia have
recently taken a new step in " social insurance " by providing noncontributing
state pensions to lying-in women.

So far as our three selected types of legislation are concerned, very little
has been accomplished in the voluntary system of Denmark. Lying-in benefits are
not required by law, and as a rule are not given by the recognized societies
beyond the medical aid necessary in case of unusual complications. Attendance
by physicians at childbirth is not common in European countries. A few
societies provide insured women with the service of a midwife.

In Germany a substantial lying-in benefit, amounting to a sickness benefit for
8 weeks, is required by law for all insured women, no distinction being made
between married and unmarried mothers. With the consent of the lying-in woman,
medical attendance, services of midwife, or nurse, or hospital care, may be
substituted for the entire maternity benefit, or parts of it. Special pregnancy
benefits, in case of incapacity up to 6 weeks, are among the optional benefits
allowed by the sick fund, as also the extension of benefits to the wives of
insured persons.

The maternity benefits of the British law have occasionally been referred to as
the most liberal in Europe, but that is hardly correct. The basic maternity
benefit is a flat amount of 30 shillings, but this is payable both to the
insured women and to the wives of insured men. However, in Hungary, Servia,
Roumania, and Norway as well, maternity benefits to wives of insured persons
are compulsory. In addition to the 30 shillings, insured women are entitled
also to the regular sickness benefit during confinement. The 30-shilling
provision is entirely free from any moral strings; all wives (or widows in case
of posthumous children) of insured persons, and all insured women are entitled
to it. Curiously enough, however, the additional sickness benefit just referred
to is payable only if the "insured woman" is married. Some discrimination
against the unmarried mother was after all dragged in/to satisfy Anglo-Saxon a
moral standards.Cj^^-^Suf^o^our s *sr'^l^1^c

[graphic]

Neither Germany nor Great Britain thus furnishes, ^f**".^.^ at least in its
laws (German practice being on the j*say whole very much better than the
minimum requirements of the law), the best that Europe can show in the
development of this movement. Neither in Great Britain nor in Germany is proper
medical, or rather obstetrical, aid required. Indeed, the British act
specifically states that " medical benefit shall not include any right to
medical treatment or attendance in respect of a confinement."

As a matter of fact, that is probably the main purpose to which the money
benefit is applied. But is not this purpose sufficiently important to be
achieved directly? Under the present system two results are often observed in
England: the physician's fees have increased, and instead of a guinea, all the
30 shillings is charged frequently; or the woman in her ignorance may be
tempted to save on medical aid, or on foods necessary to her, for the purpose
of utilizing the ready cash for other purposes. Neither of the two results is
socially desirable. Proper attendance atf childbirth is a matter of primary
importance to preserve the life and health of both mother and child. So long as
the very existence of a health-insurance system presupposes some efficient and
economic organization of medical aid,5 why, in this branch of medical service,
shall all the faults of private bar

•See Chapter XIV, "Organization of Medical Aid."

gaining be left undisturbed? Maternity insurance is not meant to result mainly
in a swelling of obstetricians' fees. J

Nothing can be more readily estimated than the approximate number of births,
and nothing can, therefore, be more easily provided for in advance. In Austria,
in Hungary, in Russia, in fact in almost all the compulsory systems enumerated
above, such medical aid is required. It should not be forgotten that annually
in the United States some 15,000 women lose their lives from childbirth or
various conditions connected therewith,8 and that the number of those whose
health is impaired because of unskilled aid is very much larger.

// It seems scarcely necessary to argue that medical aid is needed for the
wage-worker's wife, as well as for the woman who is a wage-worker herself. The
problems which arise in England, as to whether the 30 shillings should be paid
to the insured husband or his child-bearing wife, whether in a case of a
dissipated husband the proper use will always be made of the 30 shillings,
etc., could be easily avoided, if 30 shillings' worth of efficient expert
obstetrical

• According to mortality statistics for 1913, 10,010 deaths occurred from
various causes connected with the puerperal state (4,542 from puerperal
septicemia, 2,397 from puerperal albuminuria, and 3,071 from other causes). The
death registration area of the United States for 1913 contained the population
of 63,298,718 or 65.1 per cent of the entire population. The total number of
deaths from this cause may therefore be estimated at 10,010 -h .651 = 15,376.

service and necessary supplies were furnished instead of money. For the woman
who is self-supporting, the additional money benefit, no matter how designated,
is equally necessary. The "twilight sleep" is still in its experimental stages,
and even for the thoroughly healthy woman childbearing means enforced
incapacity to earn a living for many weeks at least.

As to the duration of these benefits laws again differ. The Italian law of 1911
establishing compulsory maternity benefit resulted from a labor law prohibiting
employment of women within four weeks after childbirth. Of 12 countries
granting maternity benefits the required period is 4 weeks in six, 6 weeks in
five, 8 weeks in two (Germany and France). Somewhere between 4 and 8 weeks
must, therefore, be the minimum period of enforced rest after childbirth.

Under normal conditions, 6 or even 4 weeks after birth should be sufficient as
far as the mother's health is concerned. But while a good many prospective
mothers may retain their perfect health until the last day before delivery, as
a rule earning capacity stops some time earlier, nor is strenuous effort during
the last few weeks quite safe to either the mother or the child. The German law
permits at least 2 weeks' benefit before childbirth, the Russian act 2, and the
French 4 weeks. These periods are included in the total period indicated above,
but in several countries the law permits optional extension of benefits to
pregnant women for longer periods.

Finally, the interests of the child would require at least some extension of
time after the necessary period of recuperation for the mother. During this
period breast feeding may be kept up, and some care given at the time when it
is most important. In Germany, such extension up to 6 weeks is permitted.
Altogether, the liberal and prosperous fund may grant aid for 14t weeks to the
wage-working mother.

To underscore the importance of these measures for purposes of health
conservation, some figures of our mortality statistics may again be quoted.
Some 80,000 children in the United States die annually from diseases of early
infancy, of which about twothirds die from premature birth, and one-third from
"congenital debility," inanition, debility, and marasmus, practically all
preventable conditions.7 And while it would be idle to claim that in all or in
the majority of the cases the lack of mother's care is the cause, yet recent
investigations by the United States Children's Bureau leave no doubt as to the
importance of its lack as a contributing cause. Of course the data prove that
undiscriminating distribution of benefits alone will not solve the question of
infant mortality, as the Webbs have so significantly pointed out. For this
reason assistance in kind, by medical aid, by

'The number of deaths in the registration. area of the United States in 1913
from disease of early infancy was 52,865, which would be equivalent to about
52,865 -f- .651 = 81,206 for the entire country.

visiting nursing, etc., is of even greater importance. But it is statistically
established that three months of breast feeding have a decided preventive
effect upon the extent of child mortality.

Accepting the necessity of these provisions, the Question of selection between
a separate maternitynnsurance system and maternity-insurance benefits as a part
of a health insurance still remains. As was shown above, European precedents
are almost without exception in favor of the latter system. Whatever the
difference of underlying economic principle may be, the decisive point is that
the services to be jrendered—medical aid, nursing, supplies, weekly benefits
for a limited time—are all identical in both systems, and the waste of
duplicating the administrative machinery obvious. Moreover, unless a system of
gratuitous state subsidies for maternity be the other alternative, a separate
system would place a heavy burden upon the wage-working women; while the cost
is easily diffused in a general health-insurance organization. Especially
cumbersome would be the organization of a separate system in this country,
where the number of married women at work is smaller, and motherhood out of
wedlock less frequent than in Europe.

The practical conclusion, therefore, is: that maternity insurance should be
made an essential part of sickness insurance, and that it should include: (a)
sufficient medical aid, (6) at least a 2 weeks' period of rest before
childbirth, (c) from 4 to 6 weeks' benefit after childbirth for the sake of the
mother, (<Z) an equal additional period for the sake of the child.

Lest this be considered a Utopian program, it may be stated here that,
notwithstanding all the financial pressure of the war, Germany by a decree of
December 3, 1914, has voted 2,000,000 marks a month for the purpose of
providing for the wives of men at the front the following benefits at
childbirth: (1) 25 marks to meet the cost of childbirth; (2) 1 mark per diem
(including Sundays and holidays) for 8 weeks, of which at least 6 must be after
childbirth; (3) 10 marks for additional nursing and medical aid, if necessary;
(4) in case of a breast-feeding mother, 1-2 mark per diem for 12 weeks, making
a total benefit period of 20 weeks, and a total maximum cost of 133 marks, or
$31.65.

In explanation of these measures the decree states that " the enormous
sacrifice of human life which war demands make it the imperative duty of the
state to take proper care for the preservation and strengthening of the coming
generation at the very moment of entrance into this world."

Of course it is rather pathetic that civilized Europe should have had to wait
for a world war to realize the general social value in the preservation and
strengthening of the coming generation. One can only hope that day is coming
and is perhaps not so very far off when the child's life will be worth while
even in absence of any efforts at systematic annihilation of the human race.

It is impossible to close this discussion of maternity insurance without
referring, at least briefly, to the strenuous opposition that has already
developed to any plan of maternity benefits or maternity insurance in this
country. In so far as the objection to maternity benefits rests upon the same
foundation as that to the entire scheme of health insurance, or to the whole
program of social insurance for that matter, such as the charge of paternalism,
the un-American character of the principle of compulsion, the additional burden
uponjndustty, ar,li what not—no special rebuttal at this place is called for.
But the opposition to maternity benefits as such, especially when it comes from
individuals or social groups otherwise always found on the side of protective
labor and social legislation, cannot be waved aside without further
consideration.

Up to the present, practical discussion of healthinsurance plans centers about
the proposals advanced by the Social Insurance Committee of the American
Association of Labor Legislation. The tentative draft of an act published by
the Committee in November, 1915, and again in December, 1915, contains a
specific provision (section 15) for maternity benefits to consist of—

1. All necessary medical, surgical, and obstetrical aid, materials, and
appliances which shall be given insured women and wives of insured men.

2. A weekly maternity benefit, payable to insured women, equal to the regular
sick benefit of the insured, for a period of 8 weeks, of which at least 6 shall
be subsequent to delivery, on condition that the beneficiary abstain from
gainful employment during the period of payment.

This provision was eliminated from the Mills. Bill introduced in the New York
legislature in January, 1916, and the identical bills introduced in the
legislatures of Massachusetts and New Jersey—all prepared by the same
committee. This action in eliminating maternity benefits altogether was taken
by the committee rather unwillingly under pressure of an opposition which
suddenly developed, with such an ardent worker for social legislation as Mrs.
Florence Kelly as chief spokesman.

The main argument advanced is the fear of the maternity benefit proving a
stimulus or even a bonus for wage-work of married women. It is argued that the
married women in industry represent an aspect of pauperized European labor,
which is contrary to American traditions; that everything must be done to
resent the extension of this European tradition on American soil; that only the
wives of negroes, non-English-speaking aliens, and defectives and delinquents
work for wages in this country; that wage-earning by wives of white men is a
matter of choice, not of family necessity; and that the maternity benefits,
especially the cash benefit, will encourage rather than repress this
undesirable tendency.

As was forcibly stated by one opponent: Offering a cash bonus amounts to saying
to the wage-earning husband, "Send your wife into a mill, factory, or
sweat-shop, and the public and the single women in her factory will send you a
present for your next baby."

The objection is also raised that maternity insur/ ance is a leap in the dark,
because it is not based upon / specific knowledge as to the number of married /
women in industry and their economic and social / condition.

It is undoubtedly true that the wage-working married woman is a rarer
phenomenon in the United States than in most European countries. It is also
true that our statistical information concerning married women in industry is
badly out of date, because the 13th census failed to utilize fully the
extensive data collected at enormous cost.

But it does not follow that qualitative knowledge is necessarily worthless
because it does not always possess sufficient quantitative accuracy. The number
of married women at work increased from 515,124 in 1890 to 775,924 in 1900, or
over 50 per cent. It constituted in 1890 14 per cent of all women at work, and
in 1900, 15.5 per cent. The proportion of married women at work to the total
number of married women in 1890 was 4.6 per cent, and in 1900, 5.6 per cent.
What reason is there to assume that this tendency, accompanying as it does the
industrial development of every civilized country, has been interrupted in the
United States since 1900?

Surely the general advance of women into industrial and commercial life has not
been interrupted— that much we know. The number of women breadwinners
registered as such by the census enumerators has increased from 5,007,069 in
1900 to 8,075,772 in 1910. The popular feminist and suffragist writer speaks
with as much right of the demands of " eight million women," as he (or rather
she) did 10 years ago of the "five million." It is likely that this increase
has been exaggerated by change of method, but even after due allowance for this
the number remains considerably in excess of seven millions (7,216,848),8 or an
increase of some 44 per cent in 10 years.

It is also true that wage-work of married women is particularly common among
the negro race. Yet it is not at all unknown among the native born, as is seen
from the following data:

[merged small][table]

■ See "Recent Trend of Real Wages," by I. M. Rubinow, American Economic Review,
Dec, 1914, p. 815.

Comparatively, therefore, the predominating position of the negro race has
considerably declined in the group of married women at work; and the
native-born woman of native parentage is a more important factor numerically
now than she was 10 years earlier. To be sure, this is only a superficial
analysis. It should be further studied by localities and occupations; and the
absence of corresponding data for 1910 is a serious handicap. But with all that
the increase in the number of married women at work is a universal social
phenomenon of no mean dimensions.

It is not necessary here to go into an analysis of the feminist argument
demanding employment for married women as a means of self-expression, or the
argument of the radical Socialist woman, welcoming the married woman into the
rank of wage-workers, because she may thus become a comrade in the labor
struggle, while the wage-worker's wife at home remains conservative and a drag
upon the labor movement. It may be readily admitted that in the majority of
cases wage-work of married women, as the wage-work of widows, is a phenomenon
in social pathology, a result of insufficient wages, and much less frequently
results from the desire to increase the family earnings, to provide for
comforts, luxuries, or savings. The significant fact remains that hundreds of
thousands of married women do work for wages even in this country and that
their number is rapidly increasing; and if wage-work of the married woman is
injurious both for her and her children, surely it is doubly injurious both for
mother and child during the period preceding and succeeding the act of
childbirth. The purpose of maternity insurance is to prevent just this
injurious effect.

Is the explanation for the woman's work always or largely to be found in the
delinquency of her husband? If the wives of negroes and Italians predominate,
is the main reason the unwillingness of the Italian or negro man to work for
the support of his family? Such an explanation over-emphasizes the individual
cause at the expense of broad economic and social factors. The disregard of the
latter forces one to look for a multiplicity of specific causes in various
countries. For there are no Italians and negroes in Belgium, Germany, or
France, where wagework of married women is common. The absence of I Jewish
married women in American industry is urged | as a contrast, but it is
forgotten that the Jewish worker is usually a skilled or semi-skilled worker,
whose earnings are higher than those of the unskilled Italian subway digger, or
negro elevator j operator.

Moreover, the discussion on these lines leaves out of consideration the
abandoned wife, the wife of the , workman disabled by accident, acute illness,
or I chronic invabdity, the wife of the unemployed worker, / who is driven to
work at least temporarily, the mother I of the posthumous child.

And finally the problem of the unmarried mother need not be disregarded. There
may be few of them in this country. The higher standard of sexual morality in
American society may be admitted, though how far it could affect the millions
of immigrant wage-workers, men and women, is problematical. The various reports
of vice investigation commissions in Chicago, New York, Baltimore,
Philadelphia, and elsewhere, somewhat disturb our American optimism in this
respect. It is possible that the difference in illegitimacy is as much due to
wider knowledge of contraceptive methods or greater frequency of abortion. And
if the absence of systematized maternity benefits is partly responsible for it,
by throwing the entire economic responsibility for the change in standards of
sex morality upon the woman, isn't it about time to prevent this tendency from
further extension?

There may be no exact measurement for the need of maternity aid. It is possible
to overdo the demand for statistics and information as a preliminary to action.
Most valuable social statistics, as a matter of fact, come as a consequence of
constructive social action. We knew no more about industrial accidents when
compensation legislation was advocated.

Statistical information concerning the extent of need created by motherhood is
certainly lacking, and yet no experienced charity worker can fail to appreciate
its existence. The writer was recently asked by a newspaper reporter how and
when he first be*

came interested in social insurance. It was not easy to search through one's
memory for the first stimulus which was responsible for 13 years of continuous
and obstinate agitation in favor of social insurance before an indifferent
public. But the impression received through a brief period of medical practice
of the horrible circumstances under which some women of the wage-working class
were forced to exercise their holy function of motherhood was perhaps more than
anything else responsible.

The situation created by the elimination of the maternity benefits, as was done
in the Mills Bill, is illogical and socially altogether untenable. The insured
working-man is sure of medical aid and cash benefits,- no matter what his
illness. The working-woman who pays perhaps the same dues when totally disabled
while exercising her important social function would be deprived of medical
aid, of supplies, would have to skimp, worry, and perhaps go without the
necessaries—all because of a theoretical consideration that it would be better
for her not to be a wage-worker, and for her husband to earn enough for both.
Surely no one knows that better than the wage-working woman herself. It is
significant that vigorous protests against the elimination of the maternity
benefits are heard from the wage-working women, and their representatives.

In the Socialist press, Mrs. Anita C. Block, a wellknown Socialist writer,
calls upon the "Socialist women to take the initiative and act without delay."
9 At a hearing before the Judiciary Committee of the New York Senate, at
Albany, on March 14, 1916, Miss Pauline Newmann energetically protested in the
name of the International Ladies' Garment Makers' Union. It would seem that the
wageworkers themselves often more clearly perceive the inexorable tendencies of
the age than even the most enthusiastic friends of social legislation.

•New York Call, Magazine Section, Jan. 30, 1916.

VIII

FUNERAL BENEFIT

There is no necessary logical connection between sickness insurance and funeral
benefits, especially when the term "health insurance" is used, but the
historical connection is very close. Compulsory insurance grew out of voluntary
insurance, as prac/ tised by mutual-aid societies, and help in funerals, / both
in kind and in money, was the earliest form of I mutual aid. In many mutual-aid
societies funeral / benefits are given, but special funeral-aid societies are
quite common in most European countries and in the United States.

This is true of Denmark, where sick-benefit societies do not grant funeral
benefits. These are usually provided by formally independent burial clubs, but
these are connected with, and under the same management as, sick-benefit
societies. The separation is largely the result of the requirements of the law.
The reason for such enforced separation is found in the possible actuarial
dangers of an increasing death-rate among those voluntarily insured.
Technically, funeral insurance approaches life insurance (since payments depend
upon the contingency of death), and unless rates are scientifically built upon
a mortality table, the difficulties of assessment in life insurance may arise.
The state has established a reinsurance fund for these burial clubs, and the
permitted amount of insurance is light—150 kronen (about $40)—while as a matter
of fact about 85 per cent of them grant funeral benefits of only 100 kronen
($27) or less. The British health insurance makes no provision at all for
funeral benefits, for the same reason that may have a decisive influence in
this country—i.e., the popularity of so-called industrial life insurance, which
furnishes little besides funeral benefits but has succeeded in reaching
practically the entire wage-working population—and the definite objections
raised by the British industrial life-insurance companies against the inclusion
of funeral benefits.1

In Germany, on the other hand, funeral benefits on the death of insured persons
are compulsory. The normal amount is small, 20 times the basic daily wage, and
thus limited to 100 marks as a maximum. Voluntarily, the funds may increase it
to 40 times the daily wage (maximum 200 marks), or establish a minimum of 50
marks ($12). In addition, funeral benefits at the death of members of families
are optional. In case of the death of wife or husband, they must not exceed
two-thirds, and in case of children, one-half, of the normal amount. Funeral
benefits of an equally modest amount are also granted by

1 See New Statesman, March 13, 1915, Special Supplement,

'all other compulsory sickness-insurance systems, except that of Great Britain.
What shall the attitude toward funeral benefits be in drafting American
health-insurance acts?

It may be admitted that there is noauch urgency atjout tbJ&>form of benefit as
there undoubtedly is about the other main branches of activity outlined above.
Perhaps 80 per cent of the wage-workers, and a goodly proportion of the members
of their families, are already protected by this, the least important, form of
working-men's insurance. The preservation of a high standard of funerals,
moreover, does not constitute the aim of social insurance. Besides, not to
mince matters, the effort to introduce funeral benefits into a compulsory
sickness-insurance system will undoubtedly create a very strong opposition from
industrial life-insurance interests to the entire system proposed. It may be
good politics, as it was in Great Britain, to yield without a fight—and keep
these benefits out. But do these considerations entirely settle the matter? It
would be out of place in this study to go into a detailed discussion of
industrial life insurance as such.2 But whether the high cost of life insurance
to wage-workers can be reduced through a better system or not, it is evidently
undesirable that a system which costs the American working-men some
$200,000,000 per annum should

* The writer has already done so in his work on Social Insurance, chap, xxv,
"Life Insurance for Workmen," especially pp. 417-21. See also New Statesman, 
March 13, 1915.

result in no larger gain than an extravagant funeral. Even if industrial life
insurance should remain as it is, anything that would prevent the established
extravagance in funerals, and preserve the benefits of industrial life
insurance for a purpose commensurate with its cost, would appear desirable.
Extravagance at funerals among the poor has grown to be a serilous economic
problem, and as yet all efforts to over'come it have been unsuccessful. The
assumption of this burden by the sickness-benefit fund would establish one
fairly uniform standard, the acceptance of which would not mean loss of social
caste, and finally, through democratic co-operative effort, it could cut down
by probably more than half the altogether useless waste from overcharge and
extortion of undertakers and cemetery-owners.

Compensation acts in various states have already established a standard of $100
for funerals. If all the burials among the workers of a large city were handled
by their own organization, and in their own cemetery, the cost could probably
be reduced to $50. And insurance for a burial benefit of that amount, with an
average death-rate from 16 to 20 per 1,000, should cost from 80 cents to $1 per
capita per annum—about 2 cents a week.

It is evidently highly desirable that the advantages of co-operative effort be
utilized in that direction. Only in this way lies a reasonable hope that life
insurance for wage-workers might be forced into legitimate channels. That there
is an earnest need for such life insurance goes without saying. Nor can the
high efficiency of large life insurance companies be altogether disregarded.
But the social objection to industrial life insurance as at present conducted
can never be overcome until some cheaper substitute for the present method of
soliciting and collecting can be discovered. The method is a natural
consequence of insuring for very small amounts, only sufficient for a
funeral—of insuring all the members of the family down to the newborn child,
and weekly premium so low that its collection by visitation becomes an economic
absurdity. With the funeral problem out of the way, it is doubtful whether
industrial life companies will be able to keep up their prodigious premium
volume, unless some more effective system is substituted. And it is almost
certain that with the ingenuity characterizing the management of this business,
some such a system will be introduced. Perhaps the solution lies in some form
of group insurance for which the health-insurance organization will offer a
convenient medium.

[ocr errors]

OPTIONAL BENEFITS

The four main branches of effective service which a health-insurance system
should furnish—medical care, sick benefits, maternity benefits, funeral
benefits —have been outlined in the pages preceding. Throughout the discussion,
it is hoped, a spirit of moderation in demands has been preserved, but the main
conditions stated which must be created in order to realize the objects of
modern health insurance. Though the system is compulsory, it should not be
understood to place any limits upon the spirit of mutual aid and co-operation
to which the organization of local health-benefit funds should prove a valuable
stimulus. As in Germany, so in this country, voluntary extension of benefits
may be expected. All such extensions should take place under proper control, so
as not to result in financial embarrassment, nor in encouragement of
malingering. Perhaps in the early drafts of the laws, which must deal with the
difficulties of organization, the inclusion of detailed provisions for such
optional benefits is not particularly important. In fact, the objection may be
raised that they would give (as do the additional benefits in the British
National Health act) an appearance that some very desirable things are being
accomplished, when as a matter of fact for some years to come all these
additional benefits may remain dead letters. With the comparative ease of
legislation in this country, it may be sufficient to provide for the immediate
future.

Nevertheless a brief discussion of such optional benefits at this place may be
useful for several reasons:

1. The list of optional benefits permitted clearly indicates how much
necessarily remains undone even after the minimum requirements have been
complied with. Presumably no law would include in its list of optional benefits
such services as are evidently unnecessary. The insurance system should not
furnish any luxuries entirely beyond the normal wageworker's standard of living
unless the conditions of illness makes necessaries of such luxuries. The
dangers of over-insurance are evident, especially when dealing with a condition
as easily simulated as sickness, nor is there any reason why public funds,
which may be needed at some other time for necessaries, should be thus
uselessly dissipated.

2. Most optional benefits have to some extent been realized at least in
Germany. The actual achievements of the health-insurance system in Germany, and
its possibilities in this country, cannot fully be realized without a study of
these optional benefits.

3. The introduction of optional benefits depends largely upon the system of
organization of the health insurance. It will thrive best under conditions of
reasonable local autonomy, a healthy co-operative spirit, and democratic
administration. It offers, therefore, an additional weighty argument for the
particular system outlined in a subsequent chapter.

4. After the effective realization of the minimum standards, further extension
of the system may be expected through gradual inclusion of optional benefits
among compulsory requirements. A list of comprehensive optional requirements,
therefore, outlines the lines of later growth while offering meanwhile numerous
experimental laboratories for testing out the comparative value and popularity
of various services.

It will be sufficient to study the optional benefits under two acts, the
British and the German.

The optional or additional benefits of the British acts are 14 in number, and
may be classified into four groups:1

1. Increase of compulsory benefits.

(a) Increase of the sickness benefit for all mem-
bers, or only some, depending upon the
number of dependent children,
(b') Reduction or entire abolition of the three

days' waiting period,
(c) Increase of maternity benefit.

•Section 8 (1), Fourth Schedule, Part VI.

2. New benefits.

(a) Payment of part or whole of cost of dental

treatment.

(b) Invalidity benefit to members only partially

disabled.

(c) Allowance during convalescence.

(d) Old-age pensions in addition to those under act

of 1908, or otherwise.

(e) Payment of contributions to superannuation

funds for benefit of members.

(f) Payments to members in want.

(g) Small money benefits to members in hospitals.

(h) Payments to members not allowed to work on

account of infection.

(i) Refunding of contributions.

8. Extension of benefits to dependents:

Medical treatment and attendance for dependents. 4. Extension of activities.

The building or leasing of premises suitable for convalescent homes, and the
maintenance of such homes.

In the German act the optional benefits are scattered through many paragraphs,
in which the minimum benefits are outlined. Altogether some twenty such
specific extensions may be enumerated, which for comparative purposes may be
grouped into the same subdivisions:

1. Increase of compulsory benefits.

(a) Increase of sick benefits up to 75 per cent of

wages.

(b) Grant for Sundays and holidays.

(c) Sick benefits extended to 52 weeks.

(d) Waiting period reduced or abolished in all

cases, or only in cases of industrial accidents, or in cases lasting over one
week.

(e) Increased benefit payable to family when in

sured receives hospital treatment—from onehalf to the full amount of the sick
benefit.

(f) Increased funeral benefit, up to 40 times the

daily wage.

(g) Minimum for funeral benefits increased to

50 marks ($11.90). 2. New benefits.

(a) Hospital treatment.

(b) Nurses' attendance.

(c) Appliances to prevent disfigurement or de

formity.

(d) Grant of special diets.

(e) Grant of other therapeutic means.

(f) Sick benefits (up to one-half of the regular sick

benefit) to insured persons under treatment in hospitals.

(g) Pregnancy benefits up to 6 weeks.

(h) Medical treatment for ailments due to preg

nancy.

(i) Nursing benefits (or motherhood benefits) up to

12 weeks after confinement, (j) Convalescent care up to one year after illness.
3. Extension of benefits to dependents.

(a) Medical treatment to dependent family.

(b) Maternity benefit to wife of insured.

(c) Funeral benefits for death of consort or child.

The influence of the German list upon that contained in the British act is thus
obvious. In practical effects they differ materially, because of the difference
in financial organization of the two systems. Under the British act, the income
is fixed, as explained in a subsequent chapter, while the outgo is often a
matter of conjecture. The list of additional benefits simply means: "These are
the things that may be granted, if any resources remain after the compulsory
benefits have been complied with." Since the actuarial complications of the
British system are such that it would be difficult to prove the existence of a
surplus, and since as a matter of fact, in a great many insurance organizations
the expenditures appear higher than was expected, the additional benefits
appear a dead letter.

The optional benefits in Germany bear an entirely different character. They are
functions which a democratic co-operative organization may assume if it is
willing to bear the additional cost; and though this means an additional burden
upon the employer as well as the beneficiary numerous sick-insurance funds have
assumed many of such functions. As a brilliant example of such voluntary
extension the famous Leipzig fund may again be referred to. It grants hospital
treatment, nurses' attendance, special appliances, special diets, special
methods of treatment, such as baths and massage, extension of sick benefits
from 26 to 34 weeks, pregnancy benefits, care of convalescents in special
institutions, medical, hospital, obstetrical, and funeral benefits to members
of family—i.e., almost all the optional benefits permitted by the law.

It will be observed that several of the so-called "optional" benefits of the
German act are of such importance to the entire scheme of health insurance that
they have here been included with the necessary minimum requirements. If the
reduction of these standards should become necessary anything omitted from the
required benefits should at least be reestablished in the list of optional
benefits. Even outside of that, several lines of desirable extension may be
indicated:

1. Increase of various money benefits

(a) in time,

(b) in weekly amounts.

2. Further extension of care of injured and sick in • (a) convalescent homes,

(b) in special institutions for application of expensive methods of cure and
re-establishment of earning capacity.

S. Extension of care and, possibly, small sick benefits to dependents, and,
finally,

4. While it is undesirable to introduce extraneous functions into these
specialized "health-insurance carriers," an extension of educational activities
in matters of personal, public, and industrial hygiene, and establishment of
institutions for prevention of illness, such as baths, gymnasia, would be
desirable.

When the question of organization is discussed it will appear what an important
function in the general movement for preservation of life and health these new
insurance-carriers may be made to fulfil.

[ocr errors]

BEARING THE COST

In the preceding chapters all the necessary benefits of a comprehensive
health-insurance system were discussed in some detail. Since insurance in the
final analysis is but a mechanism of distribution, and not of itself
productive, the income side of the ledger must at least balance with the
expenditures. Yet nothing at all was said of the source of revenues out of
which all these benefits were to be paid, and the services rendered. The plan,
as developed until now, may invite the criticism that it is thoroughly utopian.
Granted that all the benefits and services are desirable, so are a great many
things. But are they also possible? Can the beneficiaries pay for all?

The technical defense to this criticism can easily be made. In all computations
of insurance rates, the value of the benefits must be first ascertained. The
computation for life-insurance premiums proceeds upon the assumption of a
definite amount of insurance and the present value of this insurance payable at
some unknown distant date, with due consideration to the effects of compound
interest and mortality.

In computing insurance rates for workmen's compensation each particular act,
with its various benefits, must be separately valued. It was, therefore, the
logical procedure first to agree as to necessary benefits, before the
discussion should turn to the question of cost. Nothing was included in those
benefits which did not appear absolutely necessary for the health and
efficiency of the present and future generations of wage-workers.

Nevertheless it must be admitted that the list of included benefits is
comprehensive, and without making at this time any definite statements as to
the probable cost, it appears more than likely that, taking these benefits
together, it is higher than the wageworkers as a class can pay for. That
supposition is strengthened by the fact that only a small proportion of the
wage-workers have voluntarily provided themselves and their families with
health insurance, and that those who have organized into mutual associations
for that purpose seldom receive more than a small part of all the benefits
included as necessary here. The difficulty can be met in one way only: a
considerable part of the cost must be shifted upon some other social group.
Compulsory health insurance to be successful must be subsidized. If this term
is objectionable, we may say that, in view of the social importance of health
insurance, society must be required to contribute to its cost.

In the matter of distribution of the cost there are found perhaps the most
important differences between the various types of insurance here studied.
Under the purely voluntary system almost the entire cost falls upon the insured
wojkmen_ themselves. The word "almost" is used advisedly. Establishment funds
(frequently known as aid or benefit societies) are a common form of voluntary
health insurance. Few of them exist without any contributions from the
employer, whether regulated by the very constitution of the funds, or in form
of voluntary, charitable gifts. In those countries where voluntary insurance
through mutual-aid societies has achieved a substantial degree of development
(as, for instance, in France or Italy), honorary membership (limited to
contributions without right to benefits) serves the same purpose^. In France,
there are nearly 500,000 honorary members in addition to the 3,000,000
participating members of approved mutual-aid societies, and the contributions
of the honorary members constitute about 12 per cent of the total income.

Subsidized voluntary insurance introduces the element of a governmental
subsidy, whether from the central or local government. In Denmark the state
contributes one-fifth of the total annual dues, and in addition a per capita
subsidy of 2 kronen (53.6 cents) per member. As shown by the statistical data,
these two grants together amount to about onethird of the total revenue of the
sickness-insurance funds. The narrow limits of the benefits granted by the
Danish system seem to indicate that a higher subsidy might improve the social
results materially.

All compulsory health-insurance systems (with the exception of those of
Roumania and Holland) carry, together with the compulsion of the employees to
insure, also the compulsion of the employers to contribute to the cost, though
the amount of the employers' contribution is subject to variation. In Germany
the employer contributes a sum equal to one-half of the employee's
contribution, or onethird of the total. The same is true of Austria, Russia,
and some other countries. In the insurance systems of Hungary and Servia,
employer and employee contribute equal amounts.

One of the important deviations of the British system from the German is the
compulsory contribution from the public treasury, in addition to that of the
employer. This is sometimes referred to as a distinctive feature added by Great
Britain to the theory and practise of social insurance, but the claim is
erroneous, not only because of the time-honored precedent of a state
contribution in the voluntary system of Denmark, but also because of the
inclusion of contributions both from the state and from the communal treasury
in Norway's compulsory sickness-insurance law of 1909. (The proportions in
Norway are: insured, 60 per cent; employer, 10; commune, 10; state, 20.)

The respective shares in the British law are so well known that it seems
scarcely necessary to quote them: the insured pays 4flf. (females, 3d.) per
week, the employer 3d., and the state, in a somewhat indirect way, 9,d. In
proportion to one another, the respective shares, in case of the male insured,
are: t// ih fy

employee, 44.5 per cent; employer, 33.3 per cent; the state, 22.2 per cent; in
case of the female insured ^ Xf • the proportions are 37.5 per cent, 37.5 per
cent, and 25 per cent. There are numerous modifying conditions, some of which
will be referred to presently.

The propriety of substantial contributions from both the employer and the state
is, therefore, supported by the whole history of the European experience. This
results from the very philosophy of the social-insurance movement. But it is
quite certain that the effort to establish in this country either sort of
contribution will call forth a variety of objections and protests: from the
employers, who must resent the specific tax upon their industry, and from the
taxpayers at large, who regard it as a new and uncalled-for burden. In the
struggle for the introduction of health insurance the demand for such
contributions must be based upon specific arguments.

Employee's Contribution

Why should the employers contribute? We may give a sevenfold answer to that
question.

1. The employer's contribution is but a fiscal method of charging the industry
(in the final incidence partly the product and partly profits) with a part of
the cost of insurance. Such charge is just, largely because it is needed in
order to keep the benefits up to the necessary standards.

2. It is just, because the industry is responsible

for a large share of the illness existing among the wage-workers. In a great
many branches of industry partial responsibility for the disease is quite
obvious. Even outside of such clear cases, the marked fluctuation of the
sickness rate in dependence upon the industry is a strong indication of such
causal connection. Since the justice of this argument is admitted in
application to industrial accidents, it cannot logically be denied, at least
within certain limits, in the case of illness.

8. The employer's contribution may be defended from the point of view of the
probable, or even almost certain, reaction upon the employer's profits, because
of the obvious material gain to industry from improvement of health conditions
which must result from an efficient system of health insurance.

4. In most European countries a further justification may be found in the fact
that the burden of care of industrial accidents for a certain limited period
(e.g., 4 weeks in Austria, 10 in Hungary, 18 in Germany) is assumed by the
sickness-insurance system. This argument must be used with caution because at
best it explains only a smaller part of the employer's contribution. In
Germany, for instance, only from 8 to 10 per cent of the expenditures of the
sickness funds is required to meet this cost, while the employer's contribution
equals 33.3 per cent. The proportion must be still smaller in Austria, where
care is given by the sickness funds to cases of accidents for 4 weeks only, and
in Hungary, where the employer's contribution is 50 per cent, and accidents are
taken care of for 10 weeks.

5. The employer's contribution may be justified as a modificationJ^e.
minimugi-wage principle. In calculations of the required minimum wage, some
allowance must be (and usually is) made for expenses connected with an average
amount of illness. Evidently such provision can be much more efficiently made
through the mechanism of compulsory insurance. It is true that as yet
minimum-wage legislation in this country applies to women and children only,
but whatever the constitutional difficulties, the principle is equally
applicable to underpaid adult male workers as well. Wage-workers with an
earning capacity considerably above the minimum naturally do not claim the
protection of the minimumwage legislation. This raises an interesting problem
which will be discussed presently.

6. The compensation movement which has swept the country offers an additional
argument for such a contribution. It was argued from the very beginning that by
placing upon industry a direct financial responsibility for the occurrence of
industrial accidents, a__strong_ factor for prevention would be created. Though
the history of compensation in this country is brief, the expectation has been
fully realized. The " Safety First" movement is largely due to agitation in
favor of compensation; progressive private employers vie with
insurance-carriers of all types in developing the work of accident prevention.
As to the results of this work statistical evidence is as yet lacking. But to
doubt that such results must manifest themselves sooner or later would be to
admit that the alarming accident frequency of this country is inevitable and
incurable— a conclusion no safety engineer would for a moment countenance.

7. Finally, the compulsory contribution is only an extension, over all
employers, of an obligation .which an increasing proportion of the progressive
employers are recognizing voluntarily. Without such compulsion society places a
constant premium upon failure to provide for the health and safety of the
employees. The movement which has developed under the flag of consumers'
leagues stands as a recognition of the necessity of compulsion—which it
endeavors to apply by means of "direct action" as opposed to the "political
action " of a health-insurance law.

STATE CONTRIBUTION

The arguments in favor of a substantial contribution from public sources
(whether the entire state or the individual community) are even stronger.

1. The responsibility of the organized state for a considerable share of
preventable sickness through failure to enforce or provide satisfactory
conditions of public hygiene is even clearer than that of any industry, because
of the potential control over general sanitation, housing, industrial activity,
and education.

2. Society has a direct interest and concern in improving the health conditions
of the wage-worker and in assisting him to resist the attacks of illness,
because the health conditions of all classes of the population must improve or
deteriorate together. The justice of the state contributing to the care and
support of the sick through hospitals, sanatoria, medical inspection,
visiting-nurse service, etc., is so well recognized that it does not seem
necessary to press this argument further. But these services are open to all
classes of the population, while compulsory health insurance as here outlined
may seem to create a special class favoritism. The answer to this objection,
however, is that while, theoretically, hospital service, etc., is intended for
the entire population, in actual practice it is utilized largely by the same
groups which would be brought under compulsory insurance, and that insurance
contemplates the payment for these services out of the fund, whereas heretofore
they were furnished gratis. The state's contribution to the cost of health
insurance is, therefore, a more effective way of performing a service, the
necessity for which has already been recognized.

Workman's Contribution

Having justified the contribution of the employer and the state, there still
remains the question: Should the workman contribute? The question would seem to
be quite preposterous. As we are dealing with an insurance system, the payment
of the premium by the insured would seem to require no justification.
Nevertheless, it is worth while to point out that the platform of the Socialist
party (with a membership of some 100,000 and a voting strength of nearly a
million and with many more sympathizers) demands a system of health insurance,
as well as all other forms of social insurance, without any contribution from
the workman. Similar demands were often made by many radical labor
organizations in Europe. As moderate a pair of reformers as the Webbs have
severely criticised the British national insurance system because it introduced
a complex and cumbersome system of special taxation of the working-men for the
purpose of accomplishing something which could be more easily done by general
taxation.

After all, precedents in support of this view are not altogether lacking. It is
sometimes forgotten that one very important precedent is furnished by the
entire practice of compensation, and analogies can easily be found. The whole
cost of compensation is by common consent levied upon industry. The charge is
accepted because industry is responsible for the majority of industrial
accidents; but this is true, though not to the same extent, of a good deal of
sickness among wage-workers. Of course, through his own actions entirely
outside of the conditions of

his employment, the wage-worker may bring illness upon himself. But even so, no
one can deny that a great many industrial accidents may be traced to the
carelessness of the employee. The difference is after all one of degree only.

Another important precedent is the system of noncontributory old-age pensions,
accepted by a fairly large number of countries (Denmark, Great Britain, France,
Australia, New Zealand), which entirely disregards the factor of causation and
proceeds from consideration of need only. The same is true of the system of
mothers' pensions which has developed recently in this country and to some
extent in Europe. At least one country (France) has established a system of
non-contributory maternity insurance. It cannot be argued, therefore, that a
demand for health insurance without contributions from the insured is
altogether chimerical, impractical, revolutionary, and what not.

There are, however, it seems to the writer, besides the certain refusal of the
modern employer and modern state to agree to the cost of it, some sound
considerations for discarding this plan which, for the present, Temove it from
the domain of practical politics.

Health insurance deals with temporary disabilities of otherwise economically
self-supporting individuals. The cost of illness constitutes a part of the
necessary "standards of life" which should influence the amount of wages. It is
not at all necessary to place its entire cost upon general taxation which may
again be shifted upon the wage-worker. A non-contributory system of sickness
benefits approaching outdoor poor relief, as do old-age and mothers' pensions,
must establish a dead level of minimum benefits and does not permit of such
extension and adjustment as a system of insurance can. Finally, the
contribution of the wage-workers entitles them to a degree of democratic
participation in the administration of the funds, such as would be quite
impossible under a system of gratuitous pensions. The working class has amply
demonstrated its ability and willingness to develop mutual insurance. A system
of pensions which would destroy these expressions of mutual aid would be very
much less desirable than a financial subsidy of such mutual insurance and its
compulsory extension to wider circles. There are sound social reasons,
therefore, in favor of contributory insurance entirely irrespective of the
objections which employing or taxpaying capital might raise against carrying
the entire burden.

Moreover, it is possible to exaggerate the weight of the burden which such a
partial contribution to the cost of insurance would represent. It is to be
regretted that even as profound a student of labor problems as Mr. Sidney Webb
has swerved in this direction. While his earlier opposition to the entire
scheme of compulsory insurance1 has been considerably modified by the study of
the results during the

1 See Prevention of Deititution, by S. and B. Webb, chap. i. first two years,
nevertheless even in the Fabian Report 2 criticism of the "taxation of the
poorest" may be found. But is it at all scientific to consider the contribution
entirely in the nature of an additional charge, forgetting the returns not only
in medical aid, but also in sick benefits, which must in the natural course of
events come to every insured? For if the levying of that small charge is a
substantial hardship, how much worse must the total absence of the pay envelope
necessarily be?

In fact, the assurance of necessary medical care and of a substantial income
during illness is a matter of such great importance, that in comparison the
question of distribution of the cost becomes a somewhat minor one, so long as
there is no extravagant waste involved. Where objections are raised by
employees against any contributions because their wages will not permit the
charge, by the employers that it is an excessive burden upon industry, by
taxpayers against additional burden upon the public treasury, because it must
result in higher taxes—it is tacitly assumed that a tax must necessarily remain
where originally placed. The tendency to shifting the incidence of taxation is
entirely disregarded. Equally crude errors are often made at the other extreme,
and many an economic writer has complacently asserted that the entire cost of
compensation and other forms of social insurance is finally shifted

'New Statesman, Special Supplement, March 4, 1914.

to the price of the product, and thus paid for by the consumer.

The problems of shifting of compulsory charges are undoubtedly complex.3 The
working-man will try to shift his charge upon the employer by demanding an
increase of wages. The employer may endeavor to shift his contribution either
back upon the wageworker through reduction of wages, or upon the consumer
through increase in prices of the product, or both; the state must necessarily
raise the amount from somewhere, but which class will be affected thereby
depends upon the exact character of the tax, whether it be direct on property
and incomes, or indirect, upon some articles of consumption.

So many different possibilities present themselves that a dogmatic answer is
difficult. But it is obviously improper to assume as is done by some that the
entire burden will fall back upon the wage-worker, partly through his own
contribution, partly through increase in prices, partly through taxation. The
wage-worker is not the only consumer, he is not (or at least ought not under
any sane system of taxation to be) even the main taxpayer, and the strong
influence of a customary standard of living upon wages is so well-recognized
that at least some shifting of the worker's contribution upon the industry may
be expected. It is reasonable to expect that at least partly

* See the author's "Labor Insurance," Journal of Political Economy, June, 1904,
pp. 366-67. Also his "Social Insurance," pp. 491-93.

the cost of health insurance will come out of profits and rents. Be it as it
may, the shifting of the burden from the shoulders of the sick and disabled
upon those of the healthy and earning is the essential thing to be
accomplished.

[ocr errors]

DISTRIBUTION OF COST

The necessity of dividing the cost of health insurance among the insured
workman, his employer, and the state (or society at large) may be set down as
"a standard," or a rule of action supported by certain definite considerations.
It is somewhat more difficult to be dogmatic concerning the exact ratio of
division of the total cost among these three factors. The usual mode of
division in European acts has been indicated in the preceding chapter. None of
these (neither the German division of two-thirds and onethird, nor the
Hungarianjdivision into two equal parts, nor even the British formula of 4<i.,
Sd., and 2d.) demonstrates the influence of any logical basis. The ratios are
on customary rather than logical lines. An equal division of the cost suggests
itself as the natural, because the easiest, way of solving the problem. In the
very nature of things the basis for any equitable distribution seems to be
lacking. It is only because of the necessity of hitting upon a simple and fair
rule that an equal division of the total cost among the employee, employer, and
the state is here suggested.

Lacking a logical foundation, this rule may not deserve to be designated as a
standard. The actual distribution will in each case depend more upon bargaining
power and the interaction of political influences than upon any definite
economic or actuarial reasoning. The representatives of both the employers and
employees will naturally strive to reduce the burden to be placed upon their
respective constituents. The one rule which may be justified by the more
progressive European acts is that the share of employer and employee should be
equal, as would be the respective degrees of participation in the management of
funds. Perhaps the hardest bargaining may take place in connection with the
amount of governmental subsidy. Compromises may here be necessary, and in this
connection do not appear very dangerous. So long as the principle of state
participation in the cost is carried through, time, helped by the demonstration
of the social value of the system, may be relied upon to make this contribution
more liberal, if necessary.

It is for this reason that the particular basis of distribution found in the
bill of the American Association for Labor Legislation—40 per cent by the
employer, 40 per cent by the employee, and 20 per cent by the state—may be
approved as meeting the requirements of the particular "standard" established
above, at least half way. That the weight of the influence of labor-employing
capital will be used against any measure placing an additional charge upon them
is perhaps inevitable. But a substantial contribution from the sources obtained
by general taxation may create an opposition from a substantial and influential
part of the population which otherwise might not be inclined to antagonize it.
It is a part of wisdom not to stimulate such an opposition by asking a large
contribution from the state before the public has learned to appreciate the
constructive results of health insurance.

REDUCED CONTRIBUTION FOR LOW-PAID LABOR

The demand for entire freedom from participation in the cost, made by the
radical wing of the labor movement, finds some justification in the fact that
for a certain proportion of the wage-workers even the smallest contribution, in
view of the low wagescale, may present a serious hardship.

This objection is energetically raised by Mr. Webb in his Fabian report, and
further emphasized by the use of italics.

"By the insurance premium the state is abstracting from each of their bare
cupboards one loaf of bread a week, thereby starving them still further into
illness in order to pay for their doctoring and sickness benefit during the
illness which the state has thus helped to create."

As the cost of an effective health-insurance system must be substantial, this
argument should not be lightly disposed of. Fortunately the British system
(many features of which have been so peremptorily rejected in this study)
presents in this connection a very interesting and valuable precedent, in
establishing a sliding scale, which provides for a higher contribution from the
employer for persons of lowerwage groups.

The actual contributions for the lower-wage groups and the percentages these
respective contributions bear to the total are as given in the table on page
172.

The combined share of the employer and the state, which represents the entire
subsidy granted by the compulsory system, amounts to 55.5 per cent in case of
men earning over 2*. 6d. per diem (about $3.65 per week), and to 62.5 per cent
in case of all women earning over 2s. per diem. It rises with the decrease of
wages below these rather low limits until for all workers earning less than 36
cents a day, health insurance is furnished without any cost to them—or, in
other words, the " thoroughly chimerical and revolutionary demand" of Socialist
platforms is within certain limits realized in staid and practical Great
Britain.

If it is true that money wages on the whole are about twice as high in the
United States as in England, the same principle of total freedom from
contributions should apply to all wage-workers receiving not over $4.38 per
week—perhaps not a large but still not an altogether negligible proportion of
female and juvenile workers in the United States.

[merged small][merged small][table][merged small][table]

The principle established by this provision of the British act is an admission
of the minimum-wage idea; it amounts to a definite policy to penalize industry
for paying subnormal wages. At least this is true of the additional
contribution exacted from the employer. Much less logical and of lesser social
value is the method of shifting part of the cost upon the state, unless
considered as an admission of the general concern society must feel in that
part of the working class which is paid these subnormal wages. But even the
trace of the old poor-law method of subsidizing low wages, which may be
discovered, is objectionable. It would be much more

consistent to charge the employer for the entire difference.

Some such method of relieving the groups of lower earning capacity seems very
desirable in American health-insurance laws. An exact schedule for
accomplishing this purpose cannot be devised hurriedly, but, simply as a
suggestion, the following schedule adopted by the Social Insurance Committee of
the American Association for Labor Legislation is offered. Leaving the state
contribution, whatever it may be, undisturbed, the distribution of the cost
between the employer and employee may be as follows:

TABLE II

[merged small][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors][ocr errors]
[merged small]

Notwithstanding this sliding scale the bill was still criticised for exacting
contributions from the lowpaid working-girls. How far is such criticism
justified? Anticipating the discussion of the cost of health insurance (see
chapter xvi) it may be stated that the entire cost will probably vary between 3
and at the very utmost 5 per cent. The actual amount of the weekly contribution
of the wage-worker with the above scale in force would be as follows:

WHIM TOTAL COST OF INSURANCJt, IN PROPORTION TO WAGES, IB:

3 per cent 4 per cent S per cent

If weekly earnings are: Working-men's contribution will be

Not under $9 11c and over 14c and over 18c and over

Under $9 bnt not under $8 8 - 11 10 - 14 13 - 18

"8 " " " 7 5 - 8 7 - 10 8 - 13

"7 " " " d 2 - 6 4 - 7 6 -8

6 " " " 5 1 -2 2-4 2-6

"6 0 0 0

Recognizing all that has been said and written on the subject of minimum wage,
and the cost of living for the individual worker, it is still very doubtful
whether these contributions, much more likely to come under the first column
than under the third, will represent a serious hardship, in view of the returns
to be obtained from them. For even dispensary treatment, which is supposed to
be free, will cost in nominal charges for consultation and drugs more than
these expenditures for weekly dues. For the workers earning less than $7, these
weekly deductions are so small that it is doubtful whether many employers will
endeavor to make them. It goes without saying that the raising of the standards
so as to abolish all contributions from wages under $7, instead of under $5,
could meet no serious criticism once the principle is recognized.

It is evident from the entire discussion of the cost of insurance and its
distribution among the several elements concerned that there is no one definite
economic or social theory underlying it; the theory of benefits to be derived,
ability to pay, distribution of responsibility for the existing amount of
illness, are all hopelessly mixed together. This is, however, just what is to
be expected from an institution which, notwithstanding many evidences of human
ingenuity, represents largely a historical growth. It is worth while to refer
briefly to a very interesting and coherent basis for the proper apportionment
of the sickness-insurance costs, which has been recently advanced by the
wellknown actuary and student of social insurance, Mr. Miles M. Dawson, in a
private discussion with the writer.1 Mr. Dawson finds the governing principle
of a proper adjustment of the cost of health insurance (or perhaps of all
branches of social insurance) in the social responsibility for the amount of
illness. Not all of it can be traced to the industry or occupation; but a
certain proportion can. It is just, argues Mr. Dawson, that the wage-worker be
expected to pay for that part of illness which is normal and independent of
occupational influences. That part of it, however, which is due to those
influences should be borne by industry. In this way industry will bear not an
arbitrary proportion of the cost, too high in some cases and too low in others,
but a share proportional to the hazard of disease.

1 Mr. Dawson's theory is stated here by his special permission.

Since this was written, Mr. Dawson has had the opportunity of making a public
statement of this theory at the hearing before the Committee on Judiciary of
the New York Senate, held on March 14, 1916, at Albany, New York. See the
Monitor for April, 1916.

It may be difficult to apportion in each industry the amount of existing
illness according to the responsibility, but a broad statistical rule may be
established. The occupation with the lowest sickness rate may be accepted as
the normal standard. The excess of the actual sickness rate over this normal
may, with fair justice, be assigned to occupational causes. If, e.g., according
to the data of the Leipzig sickness fund for 1887-1905, the average number of
days of sickness per annum for salesmen, clerks, etc., from twenty-five to
thirtyfour years old is 3.68, and for excavators, construction workers, etc.,
rises to 12.08, then the difference of the Leipzig sickness fund for 1887-1905,
the influences, and for the latter group the employer's contribution should
constitute seven-tenths of the cost.

The principle seems to be sound. Since the average rate of sickness for this
age group was ascertained to be about 7.79, the employer's share on the average
would amount to some 53 per cent, and the wage-workers', 47 per cent. If all
ages are roughly thrown together the rate for the office employees is 4.92 days
per annum, and for all trades 9.43, and the division again appears to be about
equal. An equal division of the cost between the employer and employee appears
essentially just on the whole, but not as between one industry and another.

There are of course many practical difficulties in the way. What statistics
shall be adopted as conelusive? Shall the basis be the average rate of an
industry in which there may be a number of different occupations? The
administrative problems of ascertaining the proper distribution may be complex.
Nevertheless, there is an important element of truth in this suggestion, which
will bear careful investigation in the future. It is, however, an entirely new
suggestion, not as yet realized anywhere, and at this time it cannot claim its
place in the brief list of definite standards.

XII

ORGANIZATION OP INSURANCE

After the substance of health insurance—i.e., the benefits to be granted and
the services to be rendered —have been decided upon, the question of method
arises. How shall this system of compulsory insurance be organized? The
experience with the development of compensation and industrial insurance in the
United States has already somewhat familiarized the American people with the
various problems of social-insurance organization. In health insurance,
however, these problems are of very much greater moment, their discussion must
be very much more careful, and an early decision as to the particular form of
insurance to be selected is of primary importance for the successful
development of the entire plan.

In compensation insurance, the essential problem is that of regulating the
duties of one social class to the other. The extent of these duties must be
very clearly stated, while in the method of meeting them a certain latitude may
be permitted. A compensation law only establishes the employer's liability on a
new basis. If the insurance method is made compulsory, it is largely for the
purpose of securing the payment of benefits established by the law. In actual
practice, as it has developed in Europe as well as in the United States, a
great variety of insurancecarriers conduct compensation insurance, beginning
with private-stock insurance companies, and up to purely governmental insurance
funds.

Thus one finds that state insurance is the exclusive form in Washington, West
Virginia, Oregon, and Wyoming, and also (with a few exceptions) in Ohio. State
insurance funds exist side by side with private commercial insurance-carriers
in California, Colorado, Michigan, Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania, while in
most of these states and many others mutual insurance of employers is not only
permitted but even encouraged, and at least in two states government authority
has organized mutuals, leaving them in the hands of the membership. Moreover,
in the face of many forms of insurance-carriers, only in a very few states is
insurance quite compulsory; in West Virginia, Massachusetts, Texas,
compensation is elective but, once accepted, insurance compulsion follows; in
many states, while insurance is ostensibly compulsory, yet self-insurance is
recognized as one of the many forms of insurance, and self-insurance simply
means relief from insurance compulsion upon sufficient evidence of solvency;
finally, in a few states no requirement at all as to insurance is found in the
law.

In other words, the insurance features are recognized as of secondary
importance, and the heated discussions of these features are largely due to the
struggle of commercial insurance to remain in this branch, which as yet has
proven to be fairly profitable.

Competition is frequently allowed between insurance-carriers of different types
because it is believed that such competition will reduce the cost of insurance.
It is usually assumed that the employers' class, being the class possessing
business sense, will be able to decide as to the comparative advantages of the
different insurance-carriers. Of course, public control over the private
insurance-carriers is often found necessary, in order to secure fair
adjustments of claims. Where state insurance-carriers conduct the business,
they are usually self-supporting. If a state subsidy is given, protests are
frequently heard that this is an unjustifiable dissipation of public funds for
the purpose of subsidizing private employers, who are not the objects of social
insurance.

The situation is evidently different in case of health insurance, where a
considerable share of the cost is borne by the very class whose economic
interests are to be protected. Contributions from the employer, and, in some
countries, from the public treasury as well, are justified largely by the
inability of the wage-workers to meet the entire cost.

The object of social health insurance is to give the insured as large a return
for their contributions as possible. As a result, practically all social
insurance against sickness in Europe is conducted by institutions or
organizations of a public character, with the element of commercial profit
entirely eliminated.

As to the actual type of the institution, there is considerable variation. In
American literature the term "social insurance" is often used interchangeably
with " state insurance." Yet there is very little direct " state insurance " in
the field of health insurance, such as is found in the German old-age insurance
system, or in the various state insurance organizations provided for
compensation insurance in several American states. The term "state insurance"
may be applied only in the sense of a very definite control, supervision,
regulation, and financial subsidy. But in face of all these facts, a public
co-operative institution may be very distinct from a state institution.

Perhaps the British system of all European systems of sickness insurance comes
near to being a state insurance system, but even then, as will be explained
presently, the insured individual deals with a public organization of a local
character, and only the latter carries on certain financial transactions with
the state.

It is important to keep in mind this distinction beween "state" and "public"
insurance-carriers, because already there may be observed symptoms of a
tendency in this country to carry the principle of direct state insurance from
compensation into the sickness field. At least a few bills have been drawn to
that effect. It is too early to say whether even in compensation the principle
of bureaucratic 6tate insurance has proved a success. But the entire growth of
health insurance has been through development of co-operative effort and
democratic organization, and their results are too great to be neglected in
favor of purely bureaucratic management.

As already indicated, the type of health-insurance organizations must largely
depend upon the generic plan of insurance, whether it is voluntary or
compulsory, and if the latter, whether the compulsion to insure leaves the
choice of the particular carrier free to the individual. In the three countries
taken as types, all the three forms may be recognized.

In Denmark, the whole organization being voluntary, insurance is carried on by
voluntary "recognized" societies. The state grants "recognition" and subsidies,
in return for which it retains the right of supervision, and prescribes certain
conditions which tend to standardize the activity of the fund. The one definite
requirement which it must strictly enforce is that the organization receiving
recognition and subsidy be kept free from any private profitmaking.

Impartially the state is ready to encourage all types of organization, and if
nearly 95 per cent of these funds are of the local type, embracing members of
different trades and occupations, in a definite locality, that is the result of
spontaneous growth. The remaining funds are either "trade funds" or

factory or establishment funds, also local in their character.

Undoubtedly establishment funds have a certain administrative advantage,
provided they are big enough for insurance purposes. Trade funds have the
actuarial advantage of a tendency toward greater uniformity of sick rate, but
they are practical in large cities only.

The variety of health-insurance funds existing in Germany has often been noted
in American writings. It is unnecessary to go over the details of the different
funds—local sick funds, establishment funds, building, miners', and other trade
funds, mutual aid funds, and the recently organized rural sick funds.

Nevertheless, the German system is built upon the principle of
Zwangsversicherung—i.e., insurance with prescribed carriers. The seeming
inconsistency between the principle of Zwangsversicherung and the variety of
existing types is not sufficiently understood by American students and requires
some explanation.

All compulsory health insurance has grown out of voluntary mutual insurance.
The situation found in Denmark at present existed in Germany at the time the
sickness-insurance law was adopted, though perhaps not in the same degree. The
existing spontaneous institutions (local, trade, and establishment funds) were
too valuable to be destroyed; besides, to destroy them would have created a
serious opposition to the whole plan. The existing institutions were preserved,
and even the future formation of such forms of sick funds, which often have
their distinct advantages, was provided for. Nevertheless; the ideal or normal
types were indicated in the law. These are the local funds, either for all
trades, or for special trades, and establishment funds.

Notwithstanding the multiplicity of funds, the choice is not left to the
individual (except for the mutual-aid funds, referred to presently). The
organization of exceptional funds was made subject to collective decision and
governmental approval. Nevertheless, the history of thirty years of insurance
has indicated the preference for local funds over all others, even over the
establishment funds. Within the local funds themselves, a process of
consolidation is taking place.

The inclusion by the act of 1911 of the two large groups, domestics and
farmhands, led to the establishment of a new type, the so-called rural fund,
which is also a local fund for workers of a lower wage scale. Out of some
20,000,000 insured, about 7,500,000 are insured in local funds, another
7,500,000 in "rural" funds, and 3,000,000 in establishment funds, leaving only
2,000,000 for all other forms of funds.

Among the local funds, the Leipzig fund, which embraces the whole city, is
justly famous. Membership in mutual-aid funds (comparable to friendly societies
or fraternal orders) as a substitute for insurance in the compulsory
institutions is only tolerated, and at the price of forfeiting the employer's
contribution.

It is not difficult to ascertain the reasons for this tendency. Health
insurance is primarily a matter for local administration. A great deal must be
lost by the geographic extension of the organization. For one thing, the
control over the beneficiaries is simplified by localization.1 The financing is
made very much cheaper, for the amounts dealt with, both in the income and in
the outgo, are small. And perhaps the most important factor is the facility of
organizing proper medical help, which is a very difficult undertaking for an
organization with a scattered membership. Even the establishment funds, though
possessing the advantages enumerated above, are not so desirable as the
ordinary local funds, because of the predominating importance of one employer
and the financial danger which may develop out of one localized epidemic.

Although the British National Insurance act has made very extensive use of
German precedents, yet the organization of the health-insurance system in Great
Britain has been built on diametrically oppo

1 See "Appendix to the Report of the Departmental Committee on Sickness Benefit
Claims under the National Insurance Act," especially Vol. I of the "Minutes of
Evidence," for evidence of the serious administrative difficulties, especially
in respect to medical aid and duplication of expense, because of centralization
of the work in home offices of large "approved" societies in Great Britain.

site lines. Its basis is unrestricted freedom of choice as to the
insurance-carrier. It is quite well understood that this is in deference to the
strong British friendly societies, which correspond to the German mutual-aid
funds (HUfskassen) but have reached a very much greater degree of development.
Not only did the British law leave these organizations undisturbed, it even
refused to prescribe a definite form of organization to supplement them. It is
perhaps idle to speculate whether the authors of the British act were wise in
this decision. The compromise was forced upon the British government by the
strength of the friendly societies, for it is quite certain that no bill could
have passed in face of a united opposition of the five or six millions of
members of friendly societies.

The British system is therefore based upon a voluntary choice of membership in
some recognized mutual organization. At the same time the organizations have a
practically unrestricted right of rejection of members (because the prohibition
of rejection on the ground of age cannot be of practical value).

What were the practical results of this system?

1. While it is true that the membership of the friendly societies has increased
considerably, the most noteworthy feature was the establishment of "recognized"
societies by private industrial lifeinsurance companies, the membership of
which exceeds five millions. While these " societies " are subject to the
requirements of the law as to prohibition of profits and as to democratic
management, it is nevertheless very doubtful whether this strengthening of the
industrial companies was contemplated by the National Insurance act.

As a matter of fact experience has demonstrated that very little if any
democracy was left in the organization of the six approved societies of the
Prudential Insurance Company. "It is ludicrous," says Mr. Webb,2 "to talk of
democratic self-government in the gigantic new societies with hundreds of
thousands of members scattered all over the Kingdom, but controlled by a
strictly centralized administration the nature of which probably none of them
understand." And while it is generally admitted that the administration of
these societies has on the whole been satisfactory to their members, yet the
practical denial of the democratic spirit must be a distinct loss, because it
fails to arouse the membership to a sense of responsibility, and to stimulate
the work for disease prevention among them. In fact it is even questioned
whether the organization of these "Prudential" societies fulfils the object of
the law which requires democratic administration.

2. The lack of strict geographic limits of the activity of the friendly
societies has created a very complex administrative problem of the "isolated
member." In every large English city thousands of organizations have their
representatives. The de'New Statesman, Special Supplement, March 14, 1914.

gree of participation of these members in the affairs of the societies must
necessarily be purely nominal, the control of the society over the
beneficiaries difficult, malingering must necessarily be stimulated. The
relation which must eventually prevail is rather that of an insured to the
insurance-carrier than of a member of a co-operative institution to his
fellowmembers.

8. A direct relationship between the friendly society and the medical
organization became quite impossible, especially because of the lack of
correspondence between geographic limits and society limits. A very complex
organization of medical aid became necessary whose working efficiency compared
with that in Germany must be low. The very task of bringing the physician and
the insured together became a matter of great difficulty, requiring a complex
system of various card catalogues with many millions of cards.

4. Finally, the system created the problem of the uninsured, either because of
unwillingness or because of inability to obtain membership in a " recognized"
society. The solution of this problem by establishing the so-called
"post-office contributors" is not a very happy one, since these are insured
only up to the amount of their individual contributions, or rather not insured
at all, but required to start compulsory saving accounts of very little value.
It is true that the number of these residual "contributors" is not very
large—only about half a million. Nevertheless they present an additional
argument against the unsatisfactory methods of organization of the British
health-insurance system.

The experience of other countries corroborates that of Germany. In Austria
practically the same situation exists, with a variety of insurance-carriers of
different types, but the local society predominating and the selection of the
carrier being largely a collective, and not an individual matter. In Russia the
prescribed type is the establishment fund (the sick benefit society of one
industrial establishment) or the combined fund of several smaller
establishments; but this is largely explained by the fact that the Russian act
of 1918 is primarily limited to factory employees. In Norway, Servia, Roumania,
and the latest addition to health insurance, Holland, new, largely local, funds
have been created, although in most counties workmen are permitted to retain
their insurance in other existing organizations.

What is the lesson of European experience in regard to the most practical and
efficient method of social insurance against sickness which should be advocated
in this country?

The first lesson is obvious—that private insurance enterprises operating for
profit have absolutely no place in the scheme. The English exception is only a
seeming one, because, while the Prudential and other industrial insurance
companies have succeeded in organization of over 5,000,000 persona into their
societies, yet they do not constitute a part of the insurance enterprise and no
profit can be received from them, except indirectly. It is generally understood
that the object of the British Prudential Insurance Company in organizing these
approved societies was primarily to protect its lifeinsurance business.

The claims of the private commercial insurance companies writing accident and
health in this country are more far-reaching. While the smaller companies,
which write almost exclusively this so-called "industrial health business,"
have energetically protested against social health insurance as likely to
injure their business interests,3 suggestions are already being made that
private stock insurance companies, operating for profit, may be utilized- in
this branch of social insurance as they have been in compensation.

There can be very little doubt that when the legislative progress of compulsory
health insurance is sufficiently advanced, energetic efforts will be made to
swing legislation in that direction. It is wise, therefore, to face this
question squarely at the outset. In arriving at a decision, the following
circumstances must be taken into consideration:

* See "The Health and Accident Underwriters' Conference held at Cincinnati,
Ohio, February 25, 1916," as reported in the insurance papers for that period,
particularly the paper by Mr. T. Leigh Thompson, "The Un-American Doctrine of
State Compulsory Health Insurance," Economic World, March 4, 1916.

1. European experience is unanimously opposed to such a plan. There is not a
single precedent in favor of such a course, though private compensation
insurance is admitted in many countries, such as Great Britain, Italy, France,
Belgium, Spain, Sweden, and others.

2. While the compulsory system calls for no expensive agency system for
solicitation of business, such a system will persist under the management of
stock companies, for the purpose of inter-company competition. Thus another
substantial channel of economic waste will be preserved.4

3. The introduction of private insurance business and the underlying element of
profit will make the administrative problems of claim adjustment very much more
difficult. At best, one must not close one's eyes to the possibility of
disagreements and misunderstandings between insurance carrier and claimant,
especially in the early stages. These conditions must be aggravated by the
existence of the motive of private gain.

4. The past experience with private accident and

*" A number of companies are offering the policy fee (i.e., the initial payment
made by the insured at the time of issue of policy), the first month's premium,
35 per cent of renewal premiums, and allowances for rent and expenses. ... In
1914 the total agency or acquisition cost of business was 32.23 per cent, in
1915 32.85 per cent, an increase of .62 of 1 per cent." Address of Mr. Louis H.
Fibel at the regular meeting of the Health and Accident Underwriters'
Conference at Cincinnati, Feb. 25, 1916.

health insurance among working-men in the United States offers very little
support in favor of such contention. In a very comprehensive investigation of
14e companies, writing this form of insurance, undertaken in 1911 by a
committee of the National Convention of Insurance Commissioners,5 the
conditions discovered were characterized by the committee as "deplorable." e

In the guarded language of the report " the Committee feels warranted in
concluding that when dealing with companies doing an industrial health or
accident business, the policy-holder public of the country—particularly those
who through ignorance or poverty are unable to protect themselves, and
therefore are particularly the wards of the government—has too frequently been
the victim of unconscionable practices in the claim departments of the
companies."7 Pages could be filled with the disgusting details of the
deceptions practised, but it is sufficient to state that in the case of the
largest and perhaps the worst of these concerns the insurance authorities
demanded and obtained the resignation of the manager of the claim department,
his wife, brother, and brother-in-law, all of whom were employed

*See Investigation of Settlements with Policyholders by Companies Doing an
Industrial Health and Accident Business, being Vol. II of Proceedings of the
National Convention of Insurance Commissioners of the United States, held at
Milwaukee, Wis., Aug. 22-25, 1911.

• Ibid., p. 87.

1 Ibid., p. 88.

in the same company and were directly concerned in the reprehensible practices.
And perhaps nothing better illustrates the morale of the business than the fact
that the gentleman in question had no difficulty in obtaining an important
position with another concern and remained a leader in the business.

5. Even though such conditions are not universal, and some improvement may have
taken place within the last five years, the fact remains that the loss
ratio—i.e., the proportion between the amount paid out for claims and the
premiums collected— varied from 30.6 to 46 per cent, that is, the expenses of
conducting the business and the profits absorbed from 54 per cent to 70 per
cent of the premiums. Only in the case of 2 companies did the loss ratio rise
above 41 per cent, and in the case of 8 companies it was less than 37.5 per
cent.8

6. The organization of medical aid for the purpose of making health insurance a
measure of prevention and cure as well as of relief would be made very much
more difficult under private insurance management. The safety work of private
insurance companies has been emphasized perhaps unduly,

• " Claims and claim expense [i.e., expenses in connection with adjustment of
claims] absorbed in 1914 45.18 per cent of the premiums and in 1915 44.79 per
cent, a reduction of .39 of 1 per cent. ... It would seem that we are now
returning to our patrons a very fair percentage of the premiums they pay us
[sic!]. It would be a splendid thing for all concerned if this ratio could be
larger, but present conditions do not seem to warrant it."—Louis H. Fibel, loc.
cit.

because obviously the reduction of hazard may result in commercial advantage.
But while such harmony between sound business considerations and social welfare
may occur, it is evidently undesirable to make the important work of health
conservation depend upon the possibility of commercial gain. In so far as
reduction in morbidity may result in savings, these savings should accrue to
the working class, and not to outside profit-seeking interests.

7. Private organization of insurance would altogether destroy an advantage of
direct participation of all parties concerned (both employer and employee) in
the health-conservation campaign.

8. Little can be expected of voluntary extension of the insurance benefits
beyond the required minimum. Many other considerations might be mentioned.
Enough has been said, however, to indicate that the permission to stock
insurance companies to extend their activities into the field of social health
insurance would result in very serious harm to the entire movement. This is so
well recognized in Europe that the suggestion was not even seriously made.

The case is perhaps not so strong against the participation of mutual private
insurance companies. For one thing, one element of profit, dividends to
stockholders, has been eliminated through the recent mutualizations of the
large industrial life-insurance companies. The wide and often highly useful
activity of some of these companies in the field of prevention, dissemination
of useful knowledge, collection of valuable statistics, is mentioned as an
argument in their favor. And yet, at least some of the arguments above
enumerated retain their force. The democracy of mutual insurance companies with
millions of policy-holders, scattered over the land, after all exists purely on
paper. And while the present management is admittedly both efficient and
honest, there seems to be little reason for turning over into their hand an
institution of tremendous social value, which should develop into a powerful
school of efficient self-government for the millions of wage-workers.

It seems equally certain that the lesson of European experience is not in favor
of the method of direct insurance by the state. In a certain sense the British
system may be described as such a direct system. Though ostensibly based upon a
freedom of choice as to the insurance-carrier, and shaped with due and perhaps
excessive regard to the wishes of friendly societies, it nevertheless
concentrates the financial transactions in a governmental commission, where a
bewilderingly complex system of bookkeeping controls the income and outgo of
every "approved" society, the transfers of membership, and the resulting
movements of reserve values, etc. The system is "national" in that it embraces
the whole nation, but is largely governmental in its operation, and much less "
national" in the better sense than is the German system.

Outside of this one precedent the entire lesson of history is in favor of the
"local" public fund, whether built upon trade lines, where the number of
insured is sufficiently large, or embracing all the wage-workers of a locality.
Of course no purely mechanical regularity as to these local funds need be
required. As a rule it is desirable that they agree with the political
subdivision, whether it be a county, township, or school district. In larger
cities the organization of numerous funds may be encouraged in the beginning,
because the administrative problems of such large funds as that of Leipzig are
complex and should not be handled lightly.

While the "local" fund should be put forth as the new organization to be
created by the law, and also the typical one, it must not be made exclusive.
The existing conditions and organizations must be carefully reckoned with. In
approaching the problem of health insurance the United States finds itself in
about the situation in which Germany was thirty years ago. All kinds of
voluntary sickness-insurance carriers exist, though the actual extent of their
operations is unknown. A governmental investigation some seven or eight years
ago indicated a membership of a little over one million, but failed to canvass
the entire field, especially as to establishment funds and local sick-benefit
societies.9 Since then the development of establishment and other funds has

• See " Health Insurance, Its Relation to the Public Health," by B. S. Warren
and E. Sydenstriker (TJ. S.), Public Health Bulletin No. 76, p. 50.

been very rapid. Perhaps fortunately, the American fraternal orders
corresponding to the English friendly societies have selected the field of life
insurance rather than that of health insurance, and therefore the influence of
the existing organizations will not be so great as it was in Great Britain.

Yet already at the recent hearing in Albany representatives of fraternal orders
protested against the health-insurance bill on the plea that it may interfere
with the development of their organizations. It is understood that several
fraternal orders have recently made efforts to develop sick benefits within
their organization, but no one can tell with any degree of certainty how far
their development has proceeded. The representative of the fraternals spoke of
the "thousands" already insured against sickness, and the natural rejoinder
followed that compulsory health insurance had in mind millions and not
thousands.10

Be it as it may, no unnecessary opposition need be created, and some place must
be provided for the existing efficient organization.

The following forms of health insurance, already existing or to be created, may
therefore be easily incorporated in the general scheme.

10 See report of the testimony in the Monitor, official publication of
Associated Manufacturers and Merchants, Vol. II, No. 10. Buffalo, March, 1916.

TRADE FUNDS

In large centers these undoubtedly have a certain advantage of community of
interests between workers in the same trades. Besides, the existing tradeunion
health-insurance funds may be readily adjusted so as to fall in with the
general scheme as here outlined. In the larger cities, the presence of a
cosmopolitan and polyglot population may make large local funds somewhat
difficult, and in view of the well-known tendency of many nationalities to
concentrate in special trades, trade funds may have the additional advantage of
racial homogeneity.

Moreover, a trade fund may often present the advantage of greater actuarial
equity, because the rates of contribution may be more easily adjusted to the
peculiar rate of sickness (whether exceptionally high or low) within the
specific trade.

ESTABLISHMENT FUNDS

These are gradually gaining popularity. Under present conditions of lack of
control they are subject to many abuses, among which perhaps the most important
are the insecurity of funds handled by the employer, and the arbitrary
administration by the latter. But with these conditions eliminated there is no
reason why, in large establishments, funds should not offer a very convenient
carrier for health insurance, provided their activity is adjusted at least to
the minimum requirements of the law, and their democratic administration by the
insured together with the employer is guaranteed. Of course, under certain
conditions an establishment fund may present a danger—especially in smaller
industrial communities, when one establishment plays such a predominant role in
the local industrial life that outside of it insufficient material would be
left for proper health-insurance organization. Under such circumstances the
local fund would practically be an establishment fund and a separation of
forces would scarcely be desirable. The permission to organize special
establishment funds should, therefore, be granted only subject to due
consideration to the local situation.

BENEFIT SOCIETIES

Perhaps the most difficult problem is that presented by the existing
sick-benefit societies, largely operated by working-men, but not on trade or
local lines. The German Kranken- und Sterbekasse and the Jewish Arbeiterring 
are examples of these organizations. Often the social and political purposes of
such organizations are as important to their membership as the functions of
insurance. Their membership is scattered; it is not always limited to persons
who would be subject to compulsory insurance. What shall be done with them?

As participation in the insurance scheme carries with it substantial financial
subsidies, pressure to admit these organizations may be expected. But, as will
be explained later, the employer's subsidy must carry with it his right to
participate in the administration of the health-insurance fund, and these
voluntary organizations are not likely to meet with favor any suggestions as to
relinquishing to the employer their present independence. This alone would
furnish many reasons for friction.

If these independent organizations are permitted to enter the field of
compulsory health insurance, on terms of complete equality with the compulsory
local associations, a direct stimulus will be given to them for active
soliciting of new membership, and a selection of risks will result to the
detriment of the regular local funds. In other words, a wedge would be opened
for the British system with all its drawbacks.

It seems preferable to make an effort to eliminate them before they become a
stronger factor in health insurance than they are now. Of course, that does not
mean that their existence must be interfered with. But if membership in one of
these organizations seems to any worker preferable to that in the usual local
funds, that may be permitted at the cost of forfeiting the subsidy coming from
the employer, for, in addition to the general considerations advanced above,
the employers will strenuously object to contributing money to working-men's
organizations, without obtaining any right of participating in the management
of the fund. There seems to be no serious objection to granting them the state
subsidy, as evidence of good faith on the part of the state, and the absence of
any desire on the part of the state to destroy them, if they can prove
sufficient efficiency of management.

German experience shows that, notwithstanding certain limitations imposed upon
these sick benefit societies, a certain membership in them will persist.
Moreover, these strict conditions need not at all preclude the activity or even
further development of the voluntary societies. Most of them combine other
forms of insurance with that against sickness. They may still go on with those
other forms, especially that of life insurance; and the fact that substantial
health insurance will be obtained by their members through the regular
compulsory system, at a lower cost to themselves, will permit a greater
development of life insurance than before. They may also furnish additional
insurance against sickness (the benefits under the compulsory system being
necessarily limited).

It must be remembered, however, that the persistence of those voluntary
sick-aid societies creates a certain danger of over-insurance, a danger which
to a certain extent exists even to-day. "Overinsurance" technically designates
a condition under which the possible benefit at the incidence of loss is
greater than the loss insured. Commercial insurance wisely endeavors to prevent
over-insurance. The layman often experiences difficulty in understanding the
reason for this. Since larger insurance carries larger premium, he sees no
reason for controlling the amount of insurance. But the fire-insurance man
knows that over-insurance either demonstrates criminal intent, or often tempts
to arson, or at least gross carelessness. The life-insurance underwriter "looks
suspiciously at an insurance for an amount out of harmony with the applicant's
state in society, either suspecting that suicide is contemplated or fearing
that the over-insurance itself, in face of financial difficulties, may suggest
suicide as " a way out."

The temptation to fraud because of over-insurance is still greater in case of
health insurance, because fraud may be perpetrated without criminal action such
as arson, and at a much less sacrifice than suicide, in fact without any
sacrifice at all, by sheer effort at malingering. The situation is extremely
unhealthy when the person is assured a larger income when disabled than if he
returned to work. Nevertheless, invariably our mutual sick-benefit societies
refuse to take over-insurance into consideration and permit the duplication (or
even more) of the benefits. The introduction of compensation, e.g., did not
move these societies to establish rules excepting compensated accidents from
the benefits, as they should. The insured workmen also object to being thus
"deprived of benefits for which they paid," forgetting that thus they might
have reduced the cost of insurance to themselves. But unless health

insurance is directly intended to stimulate valetudinarianism if not
malingering, increase of benefits through membership in voluntary societies
beyond the full income at most, (and preferably 90 per cent), should be
strictly prohibited.

XIII

ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION

In the preceding chapter the essential features of the necessary insurance
organization were outlined. The actual method of administration of these
insurance-carriers (the choice being for local associations) represents an
independent problem.

The voluntary sick-benefit societies have their own administrative systems,
often greatly differing from one another. The same is true of the establishment
funds, some of which are altogether in the hands of the employers. The existing
trade sick-benefit systems are administered as a part of the trade union. The
local associations are to be created anew. What system of administration should
be provided for these new organizations, and how far shall that of the existing
bodies be modified? Shall certain uniformity be established? Shall rigid
governmental control prevail? Or shall the entire administration be placed in
the hands of government officers, elected or appointed? It is evident that many
possibilities arise. What shall be the guiding principle of selection?

One obvious principle is that of efficiency. Combined with it is that of
economy. But perhaps equally important is the principle of democracy of
administration.

The necessity for efficiency and economy scarcely requires any proof. But why
democracy? Unless out of general social considerations? There are, however,
several very pragmatic considerations why the principle of democracy cannot be
disregarded in the administration of such an important social institution as
health insurance.

1. Democracy is necessary for the purpose of developing the services of
insurance to the widest extent. Without democratic management, little beyond
the prescribed minimum of services can be expected, as the opposition to
additional taxation would be very great.

2. Democracy is necessary for the purpose of preventing the development of a
tendency to malingering. The reason why insurance often proves a fruitful
source of fraud is that even men of average honesty fail to recognize the
element of crime in imposing upon an impersonal insurance institution.
Democratic management has the tendency of placing every member on his honor.

3. Democracy must stimulate the work of prevention. Not only does the feeling
of concern for the organization produce a salutary effect upon the individual,
but the effect is further transmitted from one individual to the other. A
democratic institution has a splendid opportunity of becoming a powerful
educational influence in the campaign for health preservation.

4. And last, but not least, democratic management is almost a conditio sine qua
non of the introduction of the system for the working classes who have already
been accustomed to democratic insurance organizations and would offer a very
obstinate opposition to a purely bureaucratic organization.

Of course, it has been claimed, and frequently with justice, that democratic
management is often found incompatible with the highest degree of efficiency.
Not only in commercial and industrial, but even in political life, a tendency
may be observed to glorify autocratic administration as most efficient. It has
been said with a great deal of truth that in the proper harmonizing of
efficiency with democracy lies the great secret of good government. The general
solution of this difficult problem need not be undertaken at this place. It may
be readily admitted that, whatever the theory, in practice democracy usually
results in a certain loss of momentum and efficiency.

That may well be true as far as certain aspects of business administration are
concerned. But as against it, the democratic management of a cooperative
institution catering to large numbers has a tremendous advantage of loyalty
which must result in very great economy and even efficiency.

Specifically, democratic administration of a mutual insurance-carrier presents
the following advantages:

Cheaper administration because a democratic form attracts the leaders of the
working class who are anxious to work for the workman's organization out of
consideration of party loyalty;

A very large amount of free service in the care and control of the sick,
through a system of committees;

A sense of responsibility on the part of the claimants, which minimizes the
danger of malingering.

These advantages are found in the present mutualaid societies and other
working-men's organizations and they explain the popularity and loyalty which
they create though often suffering from inefficient financial management.

And last, but not least, must be mentioned the social aspects of democratic
management, which have an intrinsic value of their own.

The aim should be to preserve these advantages of democratic management as far
as possible. Some features must, however, be abandoned.

To begin with, it is extremely doubtful whether it is possible (or even
desirable) to leave these associations in the hands of the working-men and
women alone. The employers, according to the scheme here outlined,1 contribute
an amount equal to that of the employees. Moreover, the exact amount of
contribution is left undecided and depends upon the efficiency of management.
The employers, therefore, have a vital interest in the finances of the associa1
See p. 169.

tion. It is, therefore, idle to expect them to forego a voice in the
management.

Nor would it be desirable. It cannot be denied that the employers have a wider
experience in matters of financial administration. Again the reduction of the
sick rate depends upon the sanitation in the factory and shop, which may be
carefully prescribed by laws and regulations, but can never escape the
influence of the employer's direct concern in the health of his employees. The
employers' participation in the affairs of the health-insurance association
should on the whole be a salutary one.

Since the contributions of the employers and employees are equal, it seems the
fairest way to give the two sides equal representation in the administration.
It is true that we are confronted with the German precedent, which gives the
wage-worker two-thirds of the voting power, and that power is frequently
resented by the employer and jealously guarded by the employees. But it must
also be remembered that the German working-man contributes two-thirds of the
cost, so that voting strength in the administration is proportionate to the
contribution, which is the plan outlined here. It is reported that the radical
elements of the German working class rather feared a reduction of the
working-man's contribution, because it would have carried with it reduction in
the working-man's influence over the affairs of the insurance association. But
the price of this preponderance in the voting power seems to be a somewhat
excessive one. If the activity of these associations is strictly limited to the
functions prescribed by the law, some disagreements may be expected, but there
appears no necessity for excessive friction. Of course, strict accountability
to state authorities, and a right of appeal against unjust acts should be
carefully guaranteed.

On the whole it seems more desirable that no official representatives of the
state authority be directly concerned in the administration of these
associations, since this would present the danger of saddling the system with a
large number of unnecessary employees, or on the other hand, might result in
the state officer, as the carrier of the balance of power, centralizing under
himself the entire management of affairs.

There seems to be no necessity of making the details of organization and
administration absolutely uniform for all associations, in view of the many
racial and local differences. Only the general outlines may be embodied in the
law and need to be discussed here. Each association must necessarily have its
own constitution and by-laws. A requirement that these constitutions and bylaws
should be subject to approval of the central administrative authority would
appear to be a sufficient guarantee of uniformity in the essential features.
The equilibrium between the employers and employees must be achieved in a small
body acting, whatever its official designation, as the highest administrative
authority of the association. Since, however, there must be a substantial
difference between the number of employers and employees, either group must
conduct its election independently. This administrative body (executive
committee or board) may act either through its own officers, or, in larger
associations, through hired administrative officials. In addition, however,
since the associations planned are of substantial size, and general meetings
may be difficult or useless, a representative body of large size, controlling
the actions of the administrative committee, may be desirable. In all these
representative bodies the two sides may vote separately, and a majority vote of
either side may be required if the problem concerns the general policies of the
association, such as the voluntary increase of benefits.

CENTRAL ORGANIZATION

What has been said above refers primarily to the organization of the local
insurance-carrier. This, however, must be an organic part of the entire system.

Constitutional difficulties will probably make any national system of health,
or any other form of social insurance, impossible for many years. If progress
is to be made in the near future, it must be, as it was in the case of
compensation, on state lines. The brief experience with compensation has
already indicated the main conditions of success of such social legislation. If
special administrative commissions with wide judicial and even semi-legislative
powers delegated to them were found necessary for the successful administration
of compensation, similar commissions will be needed for health insurance. Nor
does there seem indicated a combination of both branches of insurance in one
commission, except perhaps in the smaller states. Quantitatively the problem of
health insurance is the larger of the two. The proper launching of the system,
the relations of individual members to the funds, the problems between the
employer and employee, between employer and fund, between funds and the medical
profession, between the funds and the state, the proper regulation of
membership rates, the organization and the regulation of medical service, etc.—
these are some of the problems that must be handled judiciously and
expeditiously, as can only be done successfully by an efficient commission.

There have, however, recently developed two definite tendencies in American
state government which are urged against this suggestion of a special
healthinsurance commission. One is a "reaction against special commissions,"
and another a somewhat exaggerated enthusiasm for industrial commissions for
administration of all labor legislation. Because of these two tendencies it is
urged that the administration of the health-insurance system be placed within
the industrial commission where one exists, or within the labor department.

No very serious question of principle is involved in either of these
suggestions, and perhaps it is scarcely worth while entering here into detailed
discussion of the general tendencies of administrative practices in the United
States.

Proper administration of laws, especially constructive laws, requires efficient
administrative organization. The complexities of a compulsory health-insurance
system are such that surely autocratic administration through one all powerful
official is not desirable. The problems which will require decision will
largely be problems of conflict of interest which should not be left for final
decision to one individual, overburdened at the same time with executive
details.

If the principle of a special board or commission is recognized the question
whether it is organized altogether independently or within a larger industrial
commission is of minor importance. But it is of importance to recognize that a
complex health-insurance organization, with its health preservation work as a
side issue, cannot be sufficiently managed by men who at the same time are
expected to render decisions on accident compensation, industrial safety,
arbitration of strikes, and other matters.

"Industrial commissions" as such have recently become popular among students of
administration. But neither names nor forms of organization offer a sufficient
guarantee of efficient administration, which must depend upon honesty and
efficiency of men.

Of the existing industrial commissions some have undoubtedly proved very
effective. But no one could claim that uniformly the selection of the men was
proper, nor that they all have been equally successful. Especially strong is
the evidence becoming that most of them successfully develop one or a few of
their functions and woefully neglect others. If efficient administration means
administration by experts, specialized commissions offer a better guarantee
that such experts will at least gradually develop.

[ocr errors]

FINANCIAL ORGANIZATION

AMOUNT OF CONTRIBUTIONS

In an earlier chapter certain definite rules were laid down as to the
distribution of the entire cost, among the three main parties concerned, and
these rules were based upon general social considerations. The important
technical problem remains, as to how the total amount shall be computed and
what it shall be. Shall we endeavor to build up one uniform scale of
contributions, such as only the British system, of all systems, possesses? The
amount of contributions evidently depends upon the benefits and services which
must be given. Since we have discarded the British system of uniform benefits
(for reasons already discussed at sufficient length), it necessarily follows
that uniform contributions for a varied scale of benefits would not be at all
an equitable arrangement. The contributions evidently should bear some relation
to wages, since benefits do. Yet all vexed problems are not yet solved by this
decision. Shall the contributions then be stated in terms of a percentage of
wages, the same percentage for all wage groups? Since only the money benefits
are adjusted to wages, but the entire medical service is not, actuarial justice
would require a percentage of wages which is increasingly higher as the wages
become lower.

It is well known that the rate of sickness increases with age. Shall rates be
adjusted to this difference and rise from year to year, as would the cost of
term life insurance, if taken out for a 1-year term only? Or shall it increase
from one age group to another, by 5- or 10-year groups, as does the cost of
term life insurance in actual practice? Or shall a level-premium system be
adopted, familiar to Americans from life-insurance experience, where a uniform
premium is guaranteed for the entire period of insurance, but varies with the
age at which insurance is effected? This is the British system, though it does
not appear quite readily on the surface, because, instead of the contributions
increasing, the benefits are reduced for all persons entering insurance at an
advanced age (except during a certain period of grace).

A still more important factor than age in causation of sickness is the industry
or occupation. It seems unnecessary here to prove this contention. Shall this
factor be disregarded, as was done in the British act, or taken cognizance of
in establishing rates of contribution? Shall local differences be taken into
consideration? It is well known that the general rate of sickness may be
substantially influenced by climatic and general hygienic conditions. How far
shall these differences be taken into consideration in computing rates? And
embracing all these particular problems, there is one general problem—Shall the
law contain any specific provisions as to the actual rates to be charged for
the insurance furnished?

This question must necessarily arise because of the weight of the British
precedent. A study of the history of the British insurance system, especially
of its preparatory stages, emphasizes the prominent part taken by actuaries and
their computations. The wealth of actuarial tables accompanying the "Reports on
the Administration of the National Insurance Act," with their complex
mathematical formulae, depresses and discourages the non-mathematical student.
Not only do the general provisions of the act, such as the relation between the
contributions exacted and the benefits promised, depend upon these
computations, but a great many minor features as well, such as those
determining the reserve values which must be credited to societies for the
admission of each member over sixteen years, those for calculating the rights
of insured women at marriage, and so forth.

It would be unwise to tax the reader with actuarial computations at this place.
But for the purpose of an intelligent decision as to necessary legislation
about the rate of contributions, the essential actuarial problems underlying
the organization of health insurance must be stated.

The entire science of life-insurance rates is based essentially upon two
factors—an assumed table of mortality and the laws of compound interest. The
conditions of the insurance contract are simple. The payment of the premium
depends upon survivorship, the payment of the death benefit upon death. There
are no different kinds of losses. There is of course a considerable difference
between the rates of mortality of different occupations, and of different
localities, but there is seldom any adjustment of premiums to these
differences. Moreover, such an adjustment would be extremely difficult, since a
lifeinsurance contract is a long-term contract, there is no guarantee that the
insured would remain in the same occupation he was in at the time of insurance,
there would be a very great difficulty in controlling the change of occupation,
and the effort to adjust rates to change of occupation would not meet with
favor of the insured. An insurance company operates on a basis of a certain
mortality table. Risks are either accepted or not accepted. The rates are
conservative and safe, because the mortality assumed from the table exceeds the
mortality which may be safely expected. In a mutual company the savings due the
difference in mortality may be returned to the insured as dividends.

In comparison with life insurance, the problems presented by health insurance
are extremely complex, if it is desired to apply the strict rules of actuarial
science. This would be necessary if voluntary long-term contracts were made.
The arrange

ment would not be safe unless there were a true balance between payments and
the cost of benefit. The difficulties are statistical rather than
actuarial—i.e., the mathematical rules are available to handle the underlying
facts, but the information as to the facts is very scanty.

The benefits which must be paid under the system are numerous. Data as to
frequency of sickness and non-industrial accidents, according to the age and
occupation, would be necessary; also the distribution of cases of sickness and
resulting disability by duration of the case, according to both age and
occupation. The valuation of the maternity benefit requires data as to
frequency of childbirth among the women of the wage-working class. The funeral
benefit, no matter how small, raises all the technical problems of life
insurance. Finally, the broad plans of medical and surgical aid, hospital care,
and the supply of drugs and appliances raise many questions as to the amount of
aid which will be necessary and its probable cost. Granted all this- necessary
information, it would be possible to compute a proper rate to be charged at
each age of entry into insurance. But the plain truth is that for most of these
problems such information is unavailable and may remain unavailable for a long
time, and any actuarial computations made are likely to be very uncertain.

It is true that the work of the British National Insurance Committee gives the
semblance of such accuracy and security. In the tables all data are carried out
to the third decimal place. But as a matter of fact, this accuracy is illusory
only. It was characteristic of life-insurance actuaries that, while punctilious
care was taken of all age differences, occupational differences were
disregarded. Were all the 14,000,000 British insured members of one large fund,
this disregard of occupational differences might be inequitable, but would not
disturb the actuarial soundness of the scheme. But since the thousands of
approved societies are financially independent of one another, fluctuations in
results between the societies must soon develop. In fact, it developed very
soon 1 that the fluctuations of sickness frequency are so great as to promise
substantial surpluses in some societies, and to threaten deficits and
bankruptcy in others. While all the government calculations were based upon an
actuarial estimate of 1 week's sickness per member per annum, during the very
first six months of application of the act, 15 selected societies with a
membership of 187,000 showed together an average sick rate of 1.06 weeks; but 7
male societies showed fluctuations in the sick rate from 0.68 week to 1.3
weeks, societies with mixed membership from 0.85 to 1.74 weeks, and female
societies from 0.58 to 3.15 weeks per member per annum. Even larger
fluctuations of cost were reported to the Departmental Committee on

1 New Statesman, Dec. 6, 1913; also, Special Supplement to issue of March 14,
1914.

Sickness Benefit Claims 2 and while explanations are sought for in the possible
differences of administration of the act by numerous more or less independent
societies, obvious reasons are found in the differences of localities, age
distribution, and occupation. Especially is the latter factor of importance. It
is reasonable to assume that in the various societies organized by the
Prudential Insurance Company the general administrative tendencies are fairly
uniform. Yet, to quote only one striking illustration, " in the General Women's
Society the payment per member per week (for sickness benefits) is 3d., but in
the Domestic Servants' Society the cost falls to 2d., and in the Laundress'
Society it rises to 4td."3

The unfairness and actuarial complications arising from uniform rates in view
of such differences in experience are obvious. Of course triennial valuations,
provided for in the law, furnish a means of correction by reducing the
benefits, but this preservation of the solvency at the expense of the quality
of service is not a very desirable situation. The point of view upon which the
technical features of the British law are based, that the uniformity of
contributions is more important than the uniformity and efficiency of the
benefits and service, is an entirely erroneous one. The practical result of
this

* See Report of Departmental Committee on Sickness Benefit Claims under the
National Insurance Act, 1914, pp. 17-25.

* Report, p. 91.

will be that the benefits prescribed in the law as the minimum standard will
cease to be, as they were intended to be, the irreducible minimum of service.

The organization proposed here (as outlined in a previous chapter)4 easily and
automatically eliminates many of these problems. While full and ample reserves
are necessary for a system of insurance based upon voluntary contracts, a
compulsory system may consciously adopt an assessment system, under which the
amount of funds to be raised annually by contribution is largely determined by
the amounts of money to be paid out and expended annually. Since the age
distribution of the membership of any large insurance-carrier is not subject to
violent fluctuations, the amount necessary is not likely to change very much
from year to year. The accumulation and investment of large reserves is
altogether unnecessary. Insurance may be divorced from savings. When the system
is thus simplified, the true average cost may be ascertained in a comparatively
short time. Fluctuations between funds may be looked upon with equanimity so
long as they fall within certain reasonable limits, whether owing to
differences in climatic conditions or to occupational distribution. It would be
expected as a matter of course that a sick fund in a mining or quarrying
community would require more money than a large insurance fund for clerical
employees only.

The first important deduction to be derived from * See chap, xii, pp. 196-203.

these observations is that it is quite unnecessary, and in fact very dangerous,
to embody any definite rate of contribution in the act. This may be safely left
to the individual insurance-carriers to be established by their by-laws,
subject to the control of the Commission. This is an important negative
standard. In the first few weak efforts at drafting health-insurance bills, the
error has already been committed of introducing an iron-clad rate of
contribution, sometimes based upon very fanciful actuarial reasoning. It does
not follow therefrom that the law may disregard the entire subject of rates of
contribution. The general rules governing them may well be embodied in the act.
We are now better prepared to reach definite conclusions in regard to the many
questions asked above.

UNIFORM BASES FOB, COMPUTING BATES

Shall the contributions be at one uniform percentage rate for all wage groups?
So far as ordinary sickness benefits are concerned, they are determined as
ratios of wages, so that a uniform percentage rate is actuarially just. The
cost of medical benefits, hospital care, surgical supplies, and even of funeral
benefits, does not bear any proportion to wages. This cost being a constant
numerator in the fraction —— of which the denominator is variexposure

able (because of wage variations), this cost per $100

of wages will rise, as the wages decline. The lowerpaid wage groups of workers
will derive an advantage over the higher-wage groups—a situation which socially
is much less objectionable than the reverse would be, since thus automatically,
by establishing a simple rule of uniform percentage rates, we really obtain a
progressive charge justified by ability to

pay

The problem becomes somewhat more complicated, however, as far as the
employer's contribution is concerned, for his contribution would vary in direct
proportion to the level of wages paid and he thus would be rather benefited
than penalized for a lowwage level. Of course that offers an additional
argument for the arrangement suggested 5 for a sliding scale of contribution
for wages below $9; and it may be utilized for demanding that the sliding scale
be moved upward, possibly to $10 or $12 of weekly earnings.

It is well to remember, however, that simplicity is a great advantage in these
complex acts of social legislation, which must be understood at least in their
essential features in order to be popular. A straight percentage rate has the
advantage of simplicity, especially so far as the employer is concerned, who
can easily ascertain the total volume of his pay-roll, as he must for the
purposes of compensation insurance. Moreover, not a small advantage is that
this total can be easily and cheaply * See p. 173.

audited. So far as the contribution of the employee is concerned, the easiest
way to collect that is to permit the employer to deduct it out of the contents
of the pay envelope. Here for purposes of simplicity employees may be arranged
into definite wage groups with a flat contribution for each wage group
approximating the stated percentage on an average. For instance, let us assume
that according to the by-laws of the local insurance fund 3 per cent of the
wages constitute the combined contributions of the employer and employee, 1 1-2
per cent representing the share of each. This will mean 15 cents a week for the
employee earning $10 per week, and 18 cents for the one earning $12. It would
be manifestly easier to establish a rate of 16 cents for all earning $10 or
more but less than $12 per week than to compute the percentage separately for
each pay envelope. The possible combinations are numerous. The act need not be
lumbered up with them. But the rule may well be included that the funds may
establish such wage groups for purposes of simplifying the computation of
contributions, even if the mathematical accuracy of equal division between
employer and employed is somewhat disturbed.

AGE AND BATES OF CONTRIBUTION

The rate of sickness steadily increases with age. But since the ideal of true
actuarial reserves has been dispensed with, this factor may be entirely
disregarded. As already explained, the British contributions have been
calculated at an assumed age of entry of sixteen. Since the introduction of the
law found persons at all ages, it was necessary to protect the financially
independent societies by providing " reserve values " to compensate for the
actuarial loss sustained through a person of higher age joining and paying
contributions at the rate calculated for the entry age of sixteen. It is not
universally recognized that, while the state assumes the cost of two-ninths of
the benefits, the same proportion must be set aside for the purpose of building
up the necessary reserve; that, therefore, the entire state contribution is
virtually absorbed into such reserves, that this must go on for at least 18
years before the original deficit is met, and that for many years this state
contribution is practically unavailable to the insured. Apologists of the
actuarial complexities of the British system point to the artages of building
up these reserves, which by accumulating a compound interest will eventually
save the British workman about Id. a week, because "Id. paid in becomes 8d. 
paid out," 6 but it does seem as if this penny was a scant compensation for 18
years of skimping of benefits, which would not have been necessary if the
accumulation of reserves were abandoned and the state contribution made
immediately available. Since the average age contribu• Carr, Garnett, and
Taylor, National Insurance, p. 99.

tion of a large number of wage-workers will scarcely change from year to year,
the uniform contribution for all ages will not embarrass the fund, and any
tendency to misstate the age, or to discriminate against the aged, will be
eliminated. Lengthening of the school age and general postponement of age of
entry into industry may have a certain effect in the long run, but adjustment
to all such long-range changes may easily be made when the time arrives.

OCCUPATION AND RATES OF CONTRIBUTION

A more important problem is the effect of occupations upon the sickness rates.
The problem has been so thoroughly discussed in American literature in
connection with compensation insurance that the justice of some adjustment will
be immediately recognized. There is this important difference, however, that in
compensation insurance the entire cost is borne by the employer, or the
industry, and therefore the responsibility for the hazard is placed where it
belongs; while in health insurance an equal part of the cost is placed upon the
employee who in no sense is responsible for the excessive morbidity of his
trade.

A compulsory provision for adjusting rates of contribution to the occupational
morbidity may therefore call forth considerable protest and seem unwise. If a
local insurance fund, democratically managed, is sufficiently imbued with the
spirit of equality to establish one uniform rate of contribution for all
trades, it would not seem to be wise to place insurmountable obstacles in its
way. On the other hand, such uniformity, if it were to be enforced by the law,
might lead to some undesirable results. It might stimulate the tendency to
formation of numerous trade funds among trades with lower rates of morbidity,
so as to enable them to get all the advantages of lower rates of contribution,
and thus interfere with the development of large and strong local funds, so
necessary for the efficient administration of the medical benefits.
Insurance-carriers must therefore be given permission to grade their rates of
contribution according to rates of morbidity as shown by actual experience,
such grading to be subject to the control of a central administrative body,
which is in a position to make the necessary statistical and actuarial
computations.

EXCESSIVE HAZARDS

A very potent argument for such grading is found in its preventive
possibilities. Notwithstanding the short period of compensation in this
country, it has become quite clear that the high rate of insurance may prove a
powerful lever for raising safety conditions. This is undoubtedly true of
general health conditions as well. For this reason such grading is very
desirable, especially in so far as it affects the income account of the
employer. This may hold true

of the individual employer or establishment even more than of an entire branch
of industry. Schedule rating on fire insurance is intended to provide an
individual motive for the improvement of the risk. For the same purpose a very
comprehensive system of schedule and experience rating7 was introduced in
compensation insurance. Schedule rating for general health conditions may not
be a simple problem, though it does not appear at all impossible. But some
method of penalizing extra unsanitary conditions resulting in excessive illness
appears very desirable, for the sake of the preventive effect.

Both the German and British acts contain provisions to that effect. According
to the new German act, a specially high rate, or even an increase of the share
paid by the employer, may be ordered for an establishment suffering from
excessive illness. Such measures, if permitted by the by-laws of the fund, may
be taken directly by the executive powers of the fund subject, of course, to an
appeal to the supervising insurance authorities. By similar provision under the
British act, claim for losses sustained through excessive illness may be made,
not only

'" Schedule rating" is grading of the insurance rate, downward or upward, in
consideration of presence or absence of certain safety devices or conditions,
or on the reverse, for the absence or presence of hazardous conditions.
"Experience rating" is grading of the insurance rate with regard to the actual
accident experience of an establishment. See Proceedings of Casualty Actuarial
and Statistical Society, Vol. I, No. 3, May, 1915.

against employers, in case of insanitary working conditions, but against local
authorities, in case of bad housing conditions, bad water supply, etc., and
detailed provisions are outlined as to the proper procedure for ascertaining
the amount of loss sustained, and recovering such amount. The procedure,
however, is cumbersome, semi-judicial, and not as likely to produce the desired
results as the direct administrative procedure outlined by the German law.

RESERVE FUNDS

If the theory of rate-making outlined here is adopted, the actual rates in
different insurancecarriers will be subject to wide fluctuations, under the
influence of differences climatic, sanitary, occupational, and in age
distribution, and they will also depend upon the willingness of both employer
and employee to extend the sphere of service beyond the minimum limits
prescribed in the law. It is intended that the rates therefore be experimental,
that the method of changing them be simple; under proper administrative control
the danger of financial embarrassment and insolvency need not be serious.
Further protection may be demanded by the law in the nature of a small reserve
fund, without any intention of making it actuarially accurate and equal to
amount of accumulated liabilities, for it is not at all necessary to increase
the burdens of the workingman to-day for the purpose of relieving him in the
distant future through the problematic income derived from compound interest.
It must not be forgotten that if the level of prices continues to rise and the
purchasing value of money therefore decreases then the advantage of compound
interest may be altogether nullified by the loss in the real value of these
enforced accumulations. A working reserve sufficient to offer a sense of
security against the possible effect of a catastrophe or epidemic is all that
is required. Such a reserve may be slowly built up by requiring a certain
percentage of the annual income to be set aside until an amount commensurate
with the size of the fund is accumulated. A reserve equal to the total
expenditures of the pre» ceding year would appear sufficient.

LIMITATIONS AS TO BATES

In view of such latitude to be allowed to the funds, perhaps no further
reference to the exact amounts of the rates need be made in the law. It is
significant, however, that the German law establishes at least some maximum
limits. Four and one-half per cent is the normal limit established, and
increase beyond this limit up to 6 per cent is permitted only for the purpose
of meeting the minimum benefits. A further increase beyond 6 per cent can take
place only by concurrent decision of both employers and employees. A little
reflection will show the necessity of such limits. Small carriers may have an
excessive expense ratio or may be subject to violent fluctuations of
sickness-insurance rates. Exaggerated local pride may prevent necessary
consolidations of funds. The wage-workers are required in Germany to carry
other burdens of social insurance besides health insurance. A reasonable
limitation in the act will facilitate administrative control.

As a matter of fact, however, only in very few cases do these restrictions
become necessary, because the actual cost is very much below these excessive
limits. In communal health insurance, over one-half of the funds collected only
1 1-2 per cent, about onefourth from 11-2 to 2 per cent, and the remaining
funds from 2 to 3 per cent. In local sickness-insurance funds and establishment
funds, over one-half of the funds collect from 2 to 3 per cent, and about
one-third from 3 to 4 1-2 per cent. The tendency has been all along toward a
higher rate of contributions because of the increase in the cost of medical aid
and the development of additional voluntary features, but in less than 1 per
cent of the funds was it necessary to raise the contribution above 41-2 per
cent. With the 3 per cent rate the working-man in Germany pays 2 per cent; with
equitable distribution his share under the system as outlined above would not
exceed 1 to 11-2 per cent of his wages— under a $10 weekly wage, 10 or 15 cents
a week; under a $15 weekly wage, from 15 to 22 cents. However, this aspect of
the problem will be treated at greater detail in a subsequent chapter.

[ocr errors]

ORGANIZATION OF MEDICAL AID

It is impossible, in this brief outline of standards, to devote much space to
consideration of administrative details. But although the problem of
organization of medical aid is distinctly an administrative problem, an
exception must be made in its favor, in view of its tremendous importance, for
the successful operation of the entire scheme. In almost all systems of health
insurance, medical aid is furnished in kind, instead of by money contributions
to meet its cost, as is done in the American compensation practice. This is
necessary for considerations of both economy and efficiency. The entire
preventive effect of health insurance largely depends upon the successful
organization of medical aid.

The most difficult problem during the period of organization of the system in
Great Britain and the most scathing criticisms after its institution were all
connected with the organization of medical aid. The medical profession in this
country is more numerous, better organized, and on the whole wields a greater
influence than the profession does in Great Britain. There can be no doubt that
so soon as health insurance leaves the domain of pure theory,

and enters the legislative stage, the medical profession will become very much
alive to the situation, and will try to influence legislation to suit its own
professional views and protect its own legitimate interests. It is necessary,
therefore, to determine in advance what form of medical aid is desirable from a
broad social point of view, and also what part of the ground it may be
necessary to yield to the established customs of the varied elements of the
population of the United States.

In order to be able to discuss intelligently this rather specialized problem,
it is necessary to indicate briefly the essential problems of medical practice,
to which the majority of American students of economics and social science have
as yet given very little thought.

The established form of administering medical aid in this country, so far as
paid service is concerned, is through so-called "private practice." Medicine is
one of the oldest liberal professions, and private practice for a fee is the
recognized, time-honored method of performing the service in the liberal
professions. As a matter of fact only a few professions have succeeded in
preserving this system as a predominating one. While private practice for a fee
is still the rule in medicine and law, elsewhere this has given way to the
usual contract and stipulated monthly or weekly remuneration. This is largely
true of the engineering profession, the teaching profession, theology, most
forms of scientific and social investigation, etc., although in each and every
one "private practice " survives to a limited extent, especially in case of the
leaders and experts, who may serve in a consulting capacity.

The forces behind this change are not difficult to discover. Private practice
gives way as one large employer, either individual or corporate, takes the
place of many petty ones. A definite wage contract is preferable because it is
both economical and more efficient. There is a better utilization of time,
resulting in a smaller cost per unit of service, though the worker's total
earnings may increase. Besides, a regular wage contract permits of assignment
to special duties, leading to division of labor and specialization such as is
very difficult to accomplish under a system of private practice.

The public at large is accustomed to private practice as the normal type so far
as the paid practice of medicine is concerned. It has learned to look to
institutional treatment by a staff, as a system adapted only to charitable
medical aid. The natural consequence is to look to private practice as a more
satisfactory, though more costly, form of medicine. Nevertheless, even in this
country, the wage-workers of the larger cities have sufficiently demonstrated
the economic feasibility of medical aid under some systematic arrangement
between a body of prospective patients and the physician.

The first practical question that must confront the constructive social
legislator in approaching this problem is this: Can medical aid, on the broad
lines indicated above, be given without some change in the customary conditions
of private practice? That is, are these conditions fully adapted to the needs
and means of the working class?

An answer to this question may be found in the present status of medical aid to
the workers. Because private practice is expensive, even though the scale of
fees for physicians practising among the poor is comparatively low, medical aid
is not sought except as a last resort. There persists a harmful tendency to
self-medication, a popularity of injurious nostra, or a plain neglect of
chronic ailments. Medical aid among the poor is largely inefficient. It is
administered almost exclusively by so-called "general practitioners" or "family
physicians," often Jacks-of-all-trades, whose persistence is out of all harmony
with the recent phenomenal development of scientific medicine. There is perhaps
a distance of a quarter of a century between the present status of medical
science and that of medical practice among the poor. Conditions of private
practice among the poor do not offer an inducement to careful examination, to
study, or to the application of modern methods. There is no doubt that
conditions of dispensary practice—at least in first-class public
dispensaries—are very much superior because they offer expert advice of
specialists and possess the necessary modern equipment. But dispensary practice
is largely limited to ambulatory patients, is placed on a basis of charitable
relief, and therefore has serious drawbacks of its own kind.

It might be argued that the creation of a large fund for the treatment and
relief of all workers could improve these conditions without necessarily
disturbing the underlying basis of private practice. This is entirely
conceivable. To some extent it is the condition prevailing in the practice of
accident compensation, since most American acts impose upon the employer (or
the insurance-carrier) the duty of paying for the necessary medical aid,
instead of requiring that such aid be furnished in kind.

But there are very serious objections to such a system. The first consideration
is that of economy. In compensation the cost is borne by the employer, who
presumably is able to bear the high cost of medical aid. Some 20 to 25 per cent
of the cost of accident compensation in this country is consumed in physicians'
bills. Yet, though the injured workmen do not directly pay the bills, they
suffer from their excessive scale, because the amount of medical and surgical
aid to be given is entirely too closely limited in most states, mainly out of
fear of the excessive charges of private physicians. In health insurance the
workers themselves bear a large share of the burden, and strict economy is more
urgent. Disorganized medical aid is uneconomical just because of this lack of
organization. Excessive cost of the unit of service does not at all spell
excessive income of the practitioner because private practice is hopelessly
tied up with loss of time for the majority of the practitioners. The
unsuccessful ones barely make a living, though charging from $1 to $2 for a few
minutes of work. The successful ones must grow hurried and careless in their
work, since their income is in adverse proportion to the time and care they are
willing to give to the patient. Besides, the broad effect of prevention of ills
is almost altogether lacking in private practice; medical control over those
who are ill, or those who claim to be, is made very much more difficult;
malingering is directly stimulated.

If some sort of organization therefore seems clearly indicated, the exact lines
on which it must proceed are still subject to many fluctuations. Complete
organization would presuppose a state of affairs in which all the medical work
to be done for the members of a health-insurance fund would be done by
physicians and surgeons (one or many, as the case may be) who are specially
employed for the purpose and devote their entire time to it, as is the case
with the internes in hospitals and in other institutions. That is not at all a
revolutionary proposal. It exists in many industrial corporations, it is found
on a national scale in the famous system of Russian village medicine, and often
gives excellent results. It is in use in some German health-insurance funds and
is advocated by many experts on health insurance and by a goodly proportion of
administrative officers of health funds.

It is sometimes advocated even in this country by persons familiar with the
advantages of organized medical service in the army or navy, for instance. It
finds its support occasionally in the brilliant results achieved by thorough
organization of medical service in the building of the Panama Canal.

But this entire elimination of private practice among members of a
health-insurance system has raised very strong objections from two sources— the
medical profession and the insured themselves. The physicians are opposed to
such complete organization because they fear that in it place will be found for
only a limited portion of the profession— which seems to be based upon an
assumption that the medical profession is already overcrowded. It is true that
the census indicates some 150,000 physicians in the United States or 1
physician to a population of some 600. Yet it is difficult to say whether this
proportion is excessive. There are many idle physicians, but there are also
many overworked ones, and many ill persons who do not receive adequate medical
aid.

One of the most significant results of the Community Sickness Survey of a
middle-sized city undertaken by the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company1 was
the statement that only "61 per cent of the cases of sickness had a physician
in attendance,"

1 Community Sickness Survey, Rochester, New York, Sept., 1915, by Dr. L. K.
Frankel and Dr. L. I. Dublin. United States Public Health Reports, Feb. 25,
1916.

and that " only 45.3 per cent of those sick but able to work had physicians in
attendance," while, "of those both sick and incapacitated for work, 63.8 per
cent employed physicians or were being treated in institutions." If, therefore,
nearly twofifths of the sick poor receive no medical aid, it becomes obvious
that through a system of health insurance the amount of medical aid to be
furnished would at once increase very materially. Perhaps a very rough
computation may be made here for purposes of illustration only. If the average
annual number of sick days per adult person is about 10, a population of 600
will give some 6,000 days of illness, or some 20 patients per every working day
for each physician, perhaps as many as one should be required to care for. But
in every civilized community the number of physicians required for the work of
control, of investigation, of public health and hygiene is growing fast, so
that the foregoing proportion of physicians to population is probably higher
than will be found in actual practice. It is significant that while the
proportion of physicians to population is higher in the United States than
perhaps anywhere else in the world it has not increased during the last fifty
years, and during the last decade, because of the raising of educational
requirements for the study of medicine, and the consequent rapid reduction in
the number of medical schools, the proportion of physicians to population in
the United States is actually decreasing. Moreover, no system of health
insurance contemplates the inclusion of the entire population, and among the
higher social strata private practice with its higher fees and greater income
and leisure for the medical practitioner may still persist. Be it as it may,
the interests of the physicians— an important, powerful, and intelligent
element of our population—cannot be disregarded, especially as regards those
who are already in practice. If the profession, however, be already
overcrowded, a situation which would bring that fact to light and prevent
excessive increase in the future is of itself not an undesirable one.

Another serious objection which is advanced by the medical profession is that
complete organization of medical practice would lower the standard of medical
income and would close the avenues for advance to the ambitious members of the
class. This argument can be very readily disposed of. High medical incomes are
very few and far between. They are found almost exclusively among the fortunate
few who are ministering to the ills of the wealthy. In practice among the poor,
large incomes can be achieved only through exhaustive overwork or by gross
neglect of the interest of the patients. The difficulty is that the psychology
of the medical man has been adjusted to a speculative hope of exceptional
success, a factor wholly absent in most other liberal and scientific
professions, and one which frequently has an injurious effect upon the entire
psychology of the profession and its attitude of the average physician to
social problems.

FREEDOM OF CHOICE OF PHYSICIANS

A quite different line of defense of private practice is advanced by the
general public, namely, the necessity of freedom of choice of physician because
of the intimate relation existing between physician and patient and the
necessity of complete faith in the selected healer as a prerequisite to
successful treatment. That is a force to be reckoned with. A measure of social
amelioration cannot be successful if it runs directly opposite to the wishes
and sentiments of the beneficiaries, no matter how ill grounded such sentiments
may be. Nevertheless, in planning for large measures the effect of which will
mainly manifest itself in long-range changes, it is proper not to accept these
wishes and sentiments as final and conclusive. Of course the advantages of such
freedom of choice are often imaginative or even illusory. Moreover, social and
economic conditions have already abolished free choice in a great many
instances. It does not exist in thousands of smaller communities where there is
no choice. It is not expected in hospitals and dispensaries to which literally
millions of workers and their families apply for medical aid. It is but seldom
exercised in regard to selection of specialists when the suggestions of the
family physicians are accepted. It is waived, so far as the individual members
are concerned, in a large number of fraternal lodges, after the selection of
the physician has been effected by a democratic vote.

Scientifically, the advantages of a free choice are open to criticism. They may
have been great so long as the function of a physician was exercised largely by
moral suasion. But scientific diagnosis, serotherapy, and skilful surgery do
not depend for their success upon such whimsical considerations. In large
industrial communities the poetic "country doctor," who took care of several
generations, has long since given way to the modern commercialized
practitioner. It is preposterous to imagine that the average working-man or
woman, altogether ignorant of even the elements of physiology and hygiene, is
able to pass intelligent judgment upon the professional accomplishment of his
physicians. But because professional success sometimes depends much more upon
the physician's reputation in the community than upon his professional standing
among his colleagues, the free choice of physician is often defended because it
represents a valuable asset, comparable to the "good will" of commercial
undertakings. The constructive legislator, therefore, need not perhaps be
intimidated by the intrinsic value of free choice, but he must reckon with it
as a social force which cannot be antagonized too strenuously, since the
success of the whole plan of health insurance is involved.

The practical conclusion, therefore, seems to be that medical organization is
to be aimed at so far as conditions will permit, but that in deference to
existing conditions certain freedom of choice among physicians must be provided
for. But shall this freedom of choice be limited to the physicians who have
entered into a contractual relation with the fund, or shall it be extended to
the practitioners of medicine generally? European experience offers a variety
of expedients. In Denmark, the law does not undertake to regulate the
conditions of medical aid. In practice, all forms are found, from assignments
of physicians to definite districts, to freedom of choice of any physician. Yet
the last method is rare, and the prevailing method is either the designation of
a district physician, or the right of choice between a limited number of
physicians employed by the fund. In Germany, the recent law of 1911 demands the
freedom of choice between at least two physicians "if it does not add
excessively to the cost," with the important limitation that all medical aid
must be furnished by physicians under contract. Here, also, practice has
created both types, while the question of comparative advantages of the
physician employed outright and selection from a large list of physicians still
remains one of the mooted questions in the practice of German social insurance.

The question of local option in regard to organization of medical aid has been
approached by the British Health Insurance act in an entirely different spirit.
The national act prescribes a system which is practically uniform throughout
the land. The system was decided upon as a compromise after a stormy conflict
with the medical profession. The resulting system of " medical panels" (or
registered lists of physicians) grants the right to practise among the insured
for a stipulated annual amount to each reputable physician. The right to
practise among a certain class of population is therefore recognized as a
vested right of the profession and of all the members of the medical
profession.

Sufficient evidence has already accumulated to prove that the British system
does not work out well in many particulars as far as the treatment of disease
is concerned. It has left the entire choice in the hands of the individual
workman, and preserved the economic dependence of the physician upon the good
will of his clients. It has placed no limits upon the number of insured
patients a physician may have, and has therefore stimulated low-grade
competition among physicians for the capture of the largest possible number of
contract clients. It has limited the insured practically to one physician, and
made treatment by specialists unavailable. In short, though it has increased
largely the amount of medical advice given, it has not succeeded in improving
its quality. Cases are reported in the Fabian report of physicians who have as
many as 9,000 insured on their lists and who are forced to hire one or more
assistants in order to give them even the most superficial treatment.

There is very important warning in the English conditions of what the worst
abuses are, which must be carefully avoided. Any one who is somewhat familiar
with the conditions of medical education and the legal requirements for
practice in this country knows that variations between the highest and lowest
standards are such that in some states neither a medical diploma nor a state
license is a sufficient guaranty of efficiency. There is absolutely no reason
why a health-insurance institution, with the means at its disposal, should
renounce the right to intelligent selection of its medical practitioners
according to standards established by competent authorities. There is no reason
why it should permit the commercial spirit of some practitioners to interfere
with the efficiency of the campaign of health preservation which in the long
run will be the most important aspect of the insurance system.

Yet it is quite evident that no organization of medical aid can be effective
from the point of view of public health, in which the legitimate interests of
the medical profession are not taken into due consideration. It is not only
that a certain amount of good will between the physician and patient is after
all essential to successful practice of the medical art, but that the
development of medical science and its successful application by skilful hands
is impossible without a fairly prosperous, satisfied medical profession. This
does not contemplate the phenomenal incomes made by the fortunate few. But
while exact information as to the economic status of the medical profession in
this country is lacking, the very fact that statements as to the average income
of physicians, varying from $600 to $1,200, are frequently mentioned and
accepted with credulity seems to indicate an unsatisfactory condition for
many.2 Evidently satisfactory progress of medical science and the art of
medical practice cannot be built upon such an economic basis. A prosperous,
rich people is entitled to a medical profession sufficiently relieved of the
struggle for existence, to be able to command some leisure from work, and to
devote part of that leisure to its own development. For medical science is at
present perhaps on the height of its development, and no amount of school
education alone can long keep the practising physician abreast of the times
unless supplemented by continuous study of the results of scientific advance.

The proper organization of medical aid is, therefore, closely connected with
the complicated problem of remuneration for medical work. It is charged by
many, for instance, that the shortcomings of the British system, repeatedly
referred to above, depend largely upon the unsatisfactory provisions for pay

* The Social Insurance Bureau recently established by the American Medical
Association, the work of which is in charge of the writer, contemplates
collection of accurate data on this subject.

ment to doctors. It is true that the question of rate of payments to physicians
was the cause of serious contention between the central authorities of the
national health-insurance system and the organized medical profession in Great
Britain,3 and that in various German cities it has led to serious conflict
between the insurance funds and the physicians, often accompanied by the
so-called " doctors' strikes," 4 of which as many as 1,022 were recorded up to
1911, with 921 decided in favor of the doctors. This result alone would
indicate that usually the medical profession had real grievances to contend
with.

There is reason to believe, however, that the financial organization as here
outlined is much more favorable to the prevention of such unseemly conflicts.
In Great Britain the iron-clad system of contributions, definitely fixed in the
law, made a more liberal treatment of the physicians a problem of great
financial complexity. In Germany the parsimonious attitude of the working-men
to their doctors may be easily explained by the fact that these wage-workers
contribute 66 2-3 per cent of the total cost, and therefore are jealous of
every increase of expenditures. But under the plan here outlined the
wageworkers would be financially responsible for only 40 per cent of any
increase in the cost of medical aid.

• See "Report for 1912-13 on the Administration of the National Insurance Act,"
Part I (Health Insurance), pp. 124-58.

4 See I. G. Gibbon's Medical Benefit, especially pp. 227-46.

As is shown in the following chapter, the average cost is computed at 3 to 4
per cent of the wages, of which some 1 per cent to 1.5 per cent will represent
the cost of medical aid, if the Leipzig basis is assumed. Supposing extreme
liberality were displayed to the medical profession, an increase of the cost by
some 50 per cent or to 1.5 per cent or 2.25 per cent of the wages would
probably be the extreme outside limit of this result. The additional .5 to .75
per cent of the wages would represent as far as the employee is concerned from
.2 to .3 per cent of wages, or, with an average wage of $600, from $1.20 to
$1.50 a year. Even for the worker with earnings of $1,000 the excess would be
about $2 to $3 per annum. Surely an efficient medical service is worth this
additional charge. It is impossible to go into the details of this problem at
this place.6

A great many different plans are operative in Europe. The simplest method is
that of exclusive employment at a stipulated annual salary. At the other
extreme is a scale of definite fees for visits, operations, and all other forms
of medical service. The British system has adopted the capitation plan, which
represents a sort of crude insurance contract between physician and insured,
since the former agrees to furnish all medical aid throughout an entire year
for a small consideration. It would seem to be very much wiser if this function
of insurance were lodged

'Perhaps the best discussion of this may be found in Medical Benefit in Germany
and Denmark, by I. G. Gibbon.

in a fund rather than in an individual physician whose remuneration, unless on
a salary hasis, were better adjusted in some proportion to the service
rendered. Yet since the measure of the necessary service remains largely with
the physician, a fee schedule, no matter how moderate, offers a constant
temptation to excessive visits and bills. To counteract this tendency different
schemes have been tried out in different funds. In Leipzig, e.g., a definite
per capita charge is assigned to the entire body of physicians in a panel, to
be distributed among them in proportion to the work done, which creates among
the physicians themselves a controlling force to prevent any one from claiming
an excessive share. The whole problem may be said to be still in the
experimental stage, and there is no necessity to embody iron-clad rules into
the law, or to make them uniform for the entire state. So long as the central
authority is given sufficient power to control the situation, time may be
depended upon to bring out the best methods adapted to any community. The aim
to be emphasized in the law is the quality of the service, rather than the
details of remuneration, which, in the beginning at least, may be left to the
combined efforts of collective bargaining and government regulation."

Discussing, as we are here, broad legislative standards, rather than details of
actual administra

• An authoritative discussion of this question by Dr. Alexander Lambert, of New
York City, will be found in Appendix 2, p. 395.

tion, the same rule would seem to hold in regard to the entire problem of
organization of medical aid, especially if these standards are intended for the
country at large rather than one specific state. The Mills Bill introduced in
New York, and the identical bills of the American Association for Labor
Legislation introduced in other eastern states, was severely criticised by some
physicians because the drafters failed to work out all these details and embody
them in the law.7 The omission, however, was intentional and based upon these
considerations:

First, no one knows what the most acceptable form of organization both for the
physicians and patients would be, and principles once embodied in the language
of the law are not easily changed.

Second, it is extremely doubtful whether the establishment of one uniform
iron-clad system is at all desirable. Even among the physicians an extreme
divergence of opinion exists.

It would seem very much better to leave a good deal of latitude, especially in
the beginning, so that various plans may be simultaneously adopted and tried
out.

ORGANIZATION OF DRUG SUPPLY

In the organization of the distribution of medical and surgical supplies and
other apparatus parallel

* See especially Medical Economist for March, 1916, VoL IV, No. 3, p. 59.

problems may arise, but they appear to be very much less complicated. With the
exception of drugs to be specially compounded, we are dealing here with
well-standardized articles of commerce which can readily be bought in the open
market. The problem is analogous to that of the consumers' co-operative
movement, whose very soul is wholesale purchasing and elimination of the
middleman's profits. There is a very potent argument, therefore, for direct
distribution of such supplies, at least by the larger health-insurance funds.
The compounding of prescriptions, however, has become a recognized profession
and as such it succeeds in wielding a definite social influence. From this
there has resulted a curious pressure for freedom of choice of druggists, as if
drugs, like medical advice, depended for their efficacy upon personal
confidence of the consumer.

The one serious difficulty about direct assumption of the drug and supply
business by the sicknessinsurance carrier is the local character of the
druggist's trade and the necessity for emergency service, which in large cities
may make central distributing stations somewhat inconvenient. In Germany the
peculiar laws in regard to the licensing of druggists and drug-stores have
strengthened their position to such an extent that the new act of 1911
practically guarantees them their vested interests in the business, 'with
freedom of choice, and the funds may make contracts only for the limitation of
charges. In Great Britain the consideration for the economic interests of the
pharmaceutical profession went even farther, so that druggists' panels were
established by the insurance commissioners practically on their own initiative.
The complicated English arrangements may be justified by the fact that the
societies are not organized in territorial limits, and their territories
overlap, but where geographically limited funds prevail, the methods of drug
distribution can be materially simplified. The health-insurance act may well
require all large funds, with over a certain membership, to establish a direct
supply of all therapeutic and surgical materials, with the exception of
emergency prescriptions. It must, at least, not contain any provision which
will prevent the development of such co-operative initiative. Through such
economical administration, all arguments against the supply of rare and
expensive drugs or apparatus may be answered.

ADMINISTRATION OF INSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT

So far as institutional treatment is concerned, 'definite rules in the law
would appear premature. Undoubtedly the goal to strive for is the upbuilding of
special hospitals, sanatoria, and similar institutions by the health-insurance
funds, wherever real need for such additional facilities exists. All this,
however, will require accumulation of both the necessary funds and experience.
Contractual agree

ments—also under the control of the insurance commission—will be the
predominating method in the beginning. The appearance of a large body of paying
hospital patients will stimulate the development of both private and public
institutions. A sufficient period of time for the necessary transitional stage
must be allowed, but eventually a certain number of beds in proportion to the
number of insured must be demanded by the law. In combination with private
benevolence and public health service the growth of hospital facilities must be
developed until institutional treatment for all cases requiring it will become
a matter of course.

Since the advantages of institutional treatment for certain cases are well
recognized, at least in the more civilized communities, and since the
development of hospital facilities at least in such communities is very much
more advanced than in English cities, no such fiasco as has as yet accompanied
the so-called sanitorium benefit of the British law need be expected. In less
fortunate communities the insurance law itself, not being cramped by the
iron-clad limitations of a fixed income, could easily develop such hospital
facilities.

There is, however, one somewhat peculiar medical institution which perhaps has
scarcely anywhere developed to such high extent as in some of our larger
cities, and that is the so-called dispensary, or outpatient clinic, operated
usually in connection with hospitals, but sometimes independently, which raises
a great many important questions of administration and even organization.

An outpatient clinic, popularly known as a dispensary, is an institution " for
the proper treatment of the sick who are too poor to pay for medical advice and
treatment, and are not eligible for admission to hospitals."8 How well at least
quantitatively these institutions meet the need in our large cities may be
surmised from the fact that in New York City, for instance, there were in 1914
180 such institutions, treating literally millions of patients. As far as
ambulatory treatment is concerned, no poor working-man, who can spare the time
and sometimes the dime, need to go without it.

It may be argued, therefore, that in such cities, at least, the problem of
medical aid for the poor is largely met. On the whole this is perhaps true, at
least in regard to less serious ailments. Nevertheless, the dispensaries are
often criticised and by some are even considered an evil.

The masses often criticise these institutions for'the crude, and even cruel,
way in which patients sometimes are treated. The charge to a large extent
represents the exaggeration of supersensitive patients, but it is admitted that
frequently because of pressure of work the patient is not treated with the same
courtesy as a private patient in the physician's private office would have the
right to expect.

■ The Associated Outpatient Clinics of the City of New York, Second Annual
Report, 1914, p. 5.

More serious is the economic aspect of the case: dispensaries after all are
charitable institutions; they are intended for the poor; persons there attended
are technically on a par with paupers. There is a factor there which deters
some from applying to dispensaries for aid.

On the other hand, dispensaries are sometimes characterized by the medical
profession as an evil because of the abuse to which they are subject, mainly
because, it is energetically charged, they offer free treatment to patients of
a class to whom the payment of a regular fee would not be impossible. The
average practitioner among the poorer classes, therefore, fears the dispensary
as his greatest competitor for the paying patient. The war between private
practitioners and dispensaries, which has been going on to the writer's
knowledge for at least twenty years, is not devoid of its humorous aspects.
From the controversial literature on this subject, one might assume that the
struggle lay between two groups of practitioners of medicine. As a matter of
fact, the persons on both sides of the trenches are largely the same. The
private practitioner who kicks and rails against the dispensary which takes
away his patients is frequently the same practitioner who at certain hours of
the day does the very selfsame dispensary work.

The reason for this is not difficult to understand. A certain number of
physicians are forced by economic pressure to take up the practice of medicine
immediately upon graduation when their practical knowledge and experience are
slight. The dispensary offers a valuable school for the necessary practical
experience. Others more fortunate, having tried a course in the hospital as
well as in school, feel that they must keep in touch with things lest they lose
hold on the knowledge and experience acquired. In other words, dispensaries
attract for the same reason that hospitals attract. In addition there is the
possibility of finally gaining a hospital appointment by faithful service in
the dispensaries. And finally, to the young physician without any ties or
valuable connections, the dispensary offers the only available method of
getting in touch with prospective patients, a sort of mild advertising, but the
only kind permissible by the rigid code of medical ethics. The physicians,
therefore, continue clamoring for dispensary appointments, at the same time
railing against the increase in dispensary work.

The situation thus appears sufficiently complex. But it is further complicated
by its most peculiar feature: with very few exceptions the work is done in the
dispensaries by physicians without any financial consideration, which is also
true of hospitals, of course. It is assumed that, dispensaries and hospitals
being charitable institutions, "virtue must be its own reward." As far as
hospital wards are concerned, the standing acquired by the physician through an
appointment, and the material advantages of a hospital connection in the
competition for medical practice, are so great that perhaps the question is
less important. But the enormous free work of struggling physicians in the
charity dispensaries is certainly an anomaly not found in any other
professional activity.

The fact often mentioned as a justification, that the physicians obtain in the
dispensary valuable experience, is no answer at all, because experience is
gained through work in any profession, and that may be a reason for lower pay,
but not for gratuitous work. The rules of apprenticeship cannot apply to men
and women who must be about 25 years or over when beginning the practice of
their trade. It has always seemed to the writer that a concerted movement among
physicians to demand pay for their work in the dispensaries would have made the
atmosphere in these institutions much more healthy.

The discussion was undertaken because of the close bearing the problem has upon
the organization of medical aid. If, technically, the dispensaries are intended
for persons unable to pay for medical aid, and if the system of health
insurance would undertake to furnish such medical aid, this would technically
eliminate millions of wage-workmen from the category of persons entitled to
dispensary treatment. If, as is likely, and has been urgently advocated here,
the medical benefit is extended to the members of the insured's family, the
inroad into the clientele of dispensaries would be so great as to make many of
them unnecessary.

But yet dispensaries, because of their technical organization, if not economic
basis, have evident medical advantages:

First.—They permit of an economical utilization of the physician's time.

Second.—When properly organized, they have a serious advantage of proper
equipment, which in modern medicine and surgery is a matter of no small moment—
to mention only such facilities as chemical laboratories, facilities for blood
analysis, bacteriological laboratories, spectroscopes, X-ray apparatus,
electrical appliances for treatment, and so forth. It is impossible for a
private physician, practising among the poor, to have an office so thoroughly
equipped.

Third.—The dispensary presents the very great advantage of combining the
services of experts in all the numerous specialties, which gives the patient
the possibility of a collective advice. It has been repeatedly pointed out by
modern writers that no one physician can undertake even to make the diagnosis
of a complicated ailment, let alone prescribe or administer the treatment.

Since these advantages are important, and since efficiency of medical aid must
be an essential feature of health insurance, shall dispensaries be permitted to
stay outside for the benefit of uninsured paupers only, or can they be absorbed
into the health-insurance system, without further exploiting the unpaid labor
of a numerous profession in the work of destroying their opportunity of making
a living?

This is a serious problem in organization and administration. A health
insurance system which undertakes to do justice to the wage-worker, and to free
him from the stigma of pauperism, cannot build its success upon the further
exploitation of a profession. Evidently the free treatment of insured would be
unfair, and especially so the unremunerated labor of physicians in granting the
treatment. But assuming that all the work of the physicians is reasonably
remunerated, it would seem to be reasonable to permit dispensaries to practice
on equal terms with individual physicians. It is possible that under such
circumstances the ordinary cases will gravitate to the private physicians, for,
after all, privacy is a characteristic much sought for in the relations between
physician and patient, while the cases needing the facilities of the dispensary
will gravitate to them, perhaps frequently under the advice of the private
physician. This is at least a possible development. Its realization cannot be
accomplished through legislative mandates. But the standards of health
insurance may well include the permission to make arrangements for treatment of
patients with dispensaries, for reasonable pay, provided the work of the
physicians is paid for at rates satisfactory to the medical profession.

[ocr errors]

ESTIMATES OF COST

When the health-insurance bill of the American Association for Labor
Legislation was discussed in New York wildest guesses as to the cost of the
bill, or of any system of health insurance, were made. It is definitely known
what the, British system costs, because the contributions are definitely fixed.
The system outlined here is based upon the fixity of benefits, and
contributions adjusted to the cost. Still this but follows the German system,
and it is known that the German funds seldom call for more than 4 1-2 per cent
of the wages. It is true that the cost of the German system has been gradually
increasing: For one thing, the benefits have increased, partly by law and
partly by voluntary action. But taking the local sick benefit funds, which are
the predominating type and claim over one-half of all insured, in 1888 some 39
per cent of the funds collected dues equal to 11-2 to 2 per cent of wages, and
46 per cent 2 to 3 per cent of wages, so that for 85 per cent the dues were
between 1 1-2 and 3 per cent. This combined proportion held true in 1898,
though the proportion of funds with dues of 11-2 to 2 per cent was reduced to
26 per cent and that between 2 and 3 per cent increased to 60. By 1908, only 10
per cent had dues of 1 1-2 to 2 per cent, and 55 per cent dues from 2 to 3 per
cent, but meanwhile the number of funds with dues below 11-2 per cent became
very small, and that with dues from 3 to 4 1-2 per cent increased to 31 per
cent. According to the latest available data for 1912, the percentage of funds
with dues from 1 1-2 to 2 per cent has further decreased to 8 per cent, and
those with dues from 2 to 3 per cent also decreased to 50 per cent, while the
number of funds charging from 3 to 4 1-2 per cent increased to 37 per cent, and
there were 2.7 per cent with rates over 41-2 per cent. A similar development
was observed in funds of all other types, as the following table demonstrates:

Rate Of Dues In 1912

Communal insurance .... 48.9<g 24.5^ 26.6<g

Local sick funds 13" 8.4" 50.6s 37.0$ 2.7$

Establishment funds .... 6.8" 11.7" 49.1" 29.5" 2.9"

Minors' funds 5.8" 21.1" 46.6" 25.1" 1.4"

All funds 21.5 16.2 40.8 19.8 1.7

It must be remembered that the German sickbenefit funds also cover the first 13
weeks of all industrial accidents.

There is very little justification, therefore, for the estimate of the Mills
Bill made by the Board of Trade and Transportation of New York, that the cost
might reach $130 per annum for a wage-worker earning $1,000 a year.1

The academically trained mind would be satisfied with the statement of the cost
in Germany, as an approximation. But the attitude of the American mind must be
reckoned with, which rejects all such guesses based upon analogy with foreign
conditions. No matter what the subject of the comparison may be, the same
objection is immediately raised that" our conditions are different from those
cf monarchic Germany," etc. The writer has no doubt that even an actuarial
deduction will be rejected upon the same convincing ground that the Germans
believe in the Kaiser while we believe in the Declaration of Independence, and,
therefore, their figures cannot apply to us.

An independent effort at a computation, therefore, appears preferable.

The probable cost of the insurance system proposed here cannot be guessed
offhand. If it were necessary to compute the actual rates for different trades
and localities in advance, the problem would be still more difficult. But in
the face of all these statistical and actuarial difficulties, some estimate as
to the probable cost, in its relation to the wageearner's paying capacity,
appears quite necessary, lest the program outlined appear altogether
extravagant and visionary, and be forthwith dismissed

1 Pamphlet under title Would Cripple Employers, etc., issued by the Board in
March, 1916.

as such. With apologies for the crudeness of the methods used, an estimate of
the cost is here undertaken. It will be remembered that the benefits have been
divided into four large groups: sickness benefits, medical aid in the broadest
sense, maternity benefits, and funeral benefits. A separate estimate as to the
cost of each will be required.

An estimate as to sickness benefits is comparatively, simple, because they
depend entirely upon the average sickness rate, expressed in number of days per
annum. For the entire German system, the average has risen in 30 years from
less than 6 to more than 9. The increase was partly due to the extension of the
minimum period of assistance from 13 to 26 weeks in 1903. The experience of 18
years (1888-1905) for the Leipzig fund indicates about 9 days per annum, but
within recent years it has risen, being 10.4 days in 1912 and 11.3 days in
1913. The experience of the Manchester Unity indicates (if illness for 26 weeks
be included) a rate of 0.838 weeks or 5.9 days at the age of twenty; rising
with age until at fifty-five it amounts to 1.634 weeks or 11.3 days. The
average for the age group twenty to fifty-five is about 7.4 days. This is a
male table, subject to some selection and therefore rather too favorable for a
universal compulsory scheme. An average of 10 days or 1.43 weeks therefore
seems quite conservative and safe. At the rate of 66 2-3 per cent of the wages
as a benefit, the cost of this benefit per annum will represent 0.9538 of one
week's wages or, on a basis of 50 weeks' wages, 1.908 per cent of the annual
earnings.2

The system outlined here provides a weekly benefit, akin to the sickness
benefit, in case of childbirth, to the wage-working woman, such benefit to
extend for some definite period, say 8 to 12 weeks. The "rate of issue" varies
with the age of the married woman; with the age of the husband; with the
duration of the marriage; in this country, as in most others, with the number
of previous children. Disregarding all these refinements, however, it equals,
according to the data of the British actuaries, about 15 per 100 wives. The
weekly sick benefit in each case would be (within the limits of 8 to 12 weeks)
from 5.336 to 8.004weeks' wages.8 If employed married women alone were to bear
this cost, it would amount to from .1.0 per cent to 2.4 per cent.4 Since,
however, married women constitute only about 15 per cent of all the women
gainfully employed (in manufacturing pursuits only 12 per cent, in trade and
transportation less than 7 per cent), the cost of this benefit if distributed
among all women would be only 15 per cent of the foregoing amount—only 0.24 per
cent to 0.36 per cent of the annual earnings. If, as it should be, the cost be
distributed among all insured, irrespective

s1.43 X .667= .9538
.9538 ,+- .50 = 1.908
».667 X 8 = 5.336; .667 X 12 = 8.004
« 5.336 X .15 -i- .50 = 1.6#; 8.04 X .15 -*- .50 = 2.4*

of sex, on the theory that maternity for the purposes of the insurance system
is only one of many different forms of physical disability, then the cost of
the maternity benefit to working-women becomes so small as to be hardly worth
considering—from 0.048 to 0.072 per cent of the wages.

The funeral benefit is a flat charge irrespective of wages. It might be made a
variable amount, proportionate to wages, but it scarcely seems necessary to do
that simply for purposes of actuarial computation. The average mortality rate
in this country is about 16 per 1,000. In absence of better data one may be
excused for adopting for purposes of this crude computation the standard size
of a family as 4.6 persons. The average rate of mortality per standard family,
therefore, is 73.6 per 1,000 families. In 1900, according to the latest data
available, there were 17,430,000 persons employed in personal service, trade,
transportation, and manufactures. Of these, 13,520,000 were males, and only
7,455,000 were married men. Of the 3,910,000 women employed in the groups of
occupations enumerated, 510,000 were married, but it is reasonable to assume
that with comparatively few exceptions their husbands were also employed. Thus
we have 7,455,000 complete families for 17,430,000 persons employed, or 42.8
per cent. In addition there were 516,000 widowers and 554,000 widows,
altogether 1,070,000 widowed families, or 6.1 per cent. For every 1,000 persons
gainfully employed we may assume, therefore, 428 standard families, with 4.6
persons per family, or 1,969 persons; 61 widowed families, for which we may
assume 3.6 persons per family, or 222 persons; and 511 persons without conjugal
attachments; or a total of 2,702. The average mortality for these 2,702 persons
will be 43.2, and the cost of the funerals will be $50 X 43.2 = $2,160 or $2.16
per insured person. Four cents a week should therefore provide the cost of a
modest funeral for death in the family. Eight cents will furnish double that
amount —$100. Again, to remain ultra conservative, let us assume an annual wage
of only $500. The cost of a $50 funeral benefit will therefore amount to 0.432
per cent of the wages.

The cost of the comprehensive system of effective medical aid is perhaps the
most uncertain factor in the computation. We have no satisfactory data either
as to the amount of skilled medical aid required nor as to the cost of such
skilled aid at present, and we are especially in the dark as to the possible
lowering of the cost to be expected from effective organization. Nevertheless,
some approach to this problem may be permitted.

The Leipzig sickness-insurance fund has as liberal a system of medical and
institutional aid as any fund in Germany. On the whole, the standards of
medical aid as outlined in the preceding chapters of this study are not
essentially superior to those obtaining in the Leipzig fund. We recognize the
possible differences in cost per unit of service. Nevertheless, waiving these
differences for the present, the relation between medical and other benefits is
worth considering.

The average cost of insurance per member was M. 4tl.73, or $9.93, per annum. In
view of the dif

TABLE IV

DISTRIBUTION OF EXPENDITURES OP THE LEIPZIG SlCKNESS InBurance Fund. Annual
Averages Foe 1909-13

[table][merged small]

ference in wages, however, a direct comparison is impossible. The maternity
benefits probably cost a proportionately greater amount because of the large
female membership (about 33 per cent) and the consequent large number of
births—56 per 1,000 of the

female membership, or 19 per 1,000 members. The cost of funerals may appear low
because of the small funeral benefit (only about $9.25 per case). A comparison
between medical benefits and sickness benefits may nevertheless be made. The
proportion of medical aid to sickness benefits is M. 17.58 to M. 18.88, or 93.5
per cent. Since the cost of the sick benefits has been determined at 1.908 per
cent of the wages, the cost of medical aid would amount to 1.784 per cent of
the wages. However, an important correction must be made in this calculation.
The German sickness benefit is based upon a 50 per cent scale; we have assumed
a two-thirds scale of benefits. Had we assumed a 50 per cent scale, the cost
would not be 1.908 per cent, but three-fourths of it, or 1.4*31 per cent, and
in proportion to this the medical benefit would only be 1.338 per cent.

The assumption that in proper proportion to wages medical aid would not cost
more in America than in Germany may be easily criticised. It is intended only
as a rough approximation. Of course, the experience of thirty years has given
Germany an efficient organization which results in a low cost per unit of
service. But, on the other hand, the higher basis of American wages permits of
a much higher rate of compensation per case within the same proportion of cost
to wages. The average cost of simple medical aid per member in Leipzig was
about onehalf of the combined cost of medical aid, drugs, and hospital care. In
actual amounts it was some M. 9 per annum, or about $2.15. If the computation
made above be accepted, the cost of simple medical aid in the United States
would be 0.65 per cent of $600 to $1,000, or $4 to $6.50 per insured. It is
quite certain that this would offer a substantial income to the attending
physician.0 .

The cost of the health-insurance system as a percentage of wages, as here
computed, appears as follows:

Per cent

Money benefits 1.908

Maternity benefits 072

Funeral benefits 432

Medical aid 1.338

S.750

About 10 per cent of this amount must be added for administrative expenses,
thus bringing the total up to about 4 1-8 per cent of the wages. In all the
computations the intention was to overestimate

8 The same problem may be approached statistically in a somewhat different
manner. For the 12 months ending September, 1913, the physicians of the Leipzig
performed the following amount of work:

For members of For members' Total funds dependents

Office calls 1,084,940 492,741 1,577,681

Visits to patients 138,612 285,569 424,181

Operations 100,542 52,670 153,212

Total 1,324,094 830,980 3,154,974

Since the average number of members (exclusive of their rather than
underestimate, with the avowed purpose to allow for all possible margins, and
make the result one of a possible maximum rather than one of true probability.
Still it seems very probable that the total cost for the entire system will
approximate 4< per cent on an average, and in a good many localities or
industries will rise even higher. It is doubtful whether anywhere it will be
below 3 per cent. The law might reasonably state the limits between 3 and 5 per
cent. If a fund should desire to reduce the total contributions below 3 per
cent, it might well be required to give evidence satisfactory to an actuary
that it does not face the danger of bankruptcy. On

\

dependents) was 207,987, the average amount of work per member was as follows:

For For Total

member dependents

Office visits 5.22 2.37 7.S9

Home visits 67 1.37 2.04

Operations 48 .26 .74

6.37 4.00 10.37

In view of the large number of "operations" performed evidently even the
simplest manipulations were probably included. The medical work thus even in
the high development in Leipzig represents some 6 office calls and about 2-3 of
a visit per insured person; with the entire family covered, roughly 2 1-2 calls
and 1 1-2 visits per insured member must be added. It would seem that with
proper organization this amount of medical work could be done for about $5 or
$6 per capita. It is doubtful whether at present the physician practicing among
the poor wageworker can collect such an amount on the average.

the other hand, an increase of the contributions beyond 5 per cent would seem
to call for careful investigation as to causes.'

The actuarial computation made above may well raise two questions: Is it worth
while? Is it feasible? The discussion of these questions may be somewhat beyond
the scope of this chapter, but their importance may justify a brief deviation.
Perhaps a brief answer to these may serve instead of a summary and conclusion.

Assuming that most wages fall between $500 and $1,000 a year, 4 per cent of
that will amount to from $20 to $40 per annum. The sum is not inconsiderable.
For the twenty-odd million wage-workers of the United States, it will represent
the staggering amount of perhaps $600,000,000 per annum. But

« Of course, if the benefits are reduced below the standards outlined here, the
cost will correspondingly decrease. Moreover, one important factor has been
omitted in the above computation—namely, the saving for not paying the first
three days of illness.

For purposes of forming an estimate of the bill introduced in Massachusetts,
and identical with the Mills Bill in New York, which eliminated maternity
benefits and medical aid for the members of the families, the following
computation was submitted by the writer to the Massachusetts legislative
committee early in March of 1916:

Approximate Cost Of The Massachusetts Health Insurance

Bill

I. Sick Benefits

1. Assumed sick-rate, or number of sick-days per member, on the basis of German
and English experience (to be on the it is not all an additional charge. No one
knows how much the American working class pays at present for sickness
benefits, medical aid, and for funeral insurance together. We do know, however,
that for the last and least important aspect of the entire problem, funeral
insurance, over $200,000,000 annually is paid to industrial insurance
companies. In the investigation made some twelve years ago by the United States
Bureau of Labor, it was ascertained that the expenses for sickness and death
(exclusive of sickness benefits) amounted to $26.78 per family. If, therefore,
$30 per annum on an average can grant all the benefits which have been outlined
in a

safe side, assumption is liberally made)—10 days, or 1.43 weeks.

2. Sick benefit for 1.43 weeks, on the basis of two-thirds of

wages, in weeks wages (w. w.)

66 per cent w. w. X 1.43 = -954 w. w.

3. Discount for first three days (Leipzig experience

88,743 cases, total sick days 2,138,000, first three
days. 88,743 X 3 =-266,829, or 12.5 per cent).

.954 w. w. X -12s = -H9 w-w-
.835 w. w.

4. Cost of sick benefits in per cent of annual wages.

.835 w. w. -h 50 = 1.67 per cent.

II. Funerals.

1. Assumed death rate per 1,000 employees over

16 years of age (basis of U. S. Census).. 16

2. Cost of funerals per 1,000 employees at $50

per funeral $800

3. Cost of funerals per insured employees 80c

4. Cost in per cent of wages ($600 per annum) .133 per cent

previous chapter, the answer seems to be that it is decidedly worth while.

But is this scheme feasible? Does it permit of universal application? If the
cost of insurance, as here computed to vary between 3 and 5 per cent, were to
be levied in its entirety on the wage-workers, it would produce in most
working-men's families a disturbance of their economic equilibrium such as
would force them to look at this comprehensive structure of social legislation
as a sheer expression of governmental tyranny. A study of the available
statistical data has led the writer to the conclusion that the economic
evolution of the last twelve years has resulted in a reduction of the real
wages in the

III. Medical Benefit On basis of Leipzig experience:

1. Medical benefit 93.5 per cent of sick (money) benefits.

2. Since basis of sick benefits under Massachusetts bill is 66 2-3

per cent instead of 50 per cent, the equivalent proportion would be

.935 V SO

— = .70 per cent.

3. Leipzig system provides medical benefit for entire family,

and the Massachusetts bill for employee only. A very liberal assumption is
one-half the cost, 35 per cent.

4. If sick benefit 1.67 per cent

then medical benefit 1.67 X .35 = .585 per cent. Total:

Sick Benefit 1.670 per cent

Funeral 133 **

Medical .585"

2.388 per cent.

United States by some 10 or 15 per cent.7 That was a slow process and did not
result in anything more threatening than grumbling. The opposition to a
definite slash of several per cent at one stroke would be such that no
political party anxious to remain in power would be likely to stand ready to
face the music. Thus, entirely irrespective of any claims to justice in
apportionment, the distribution of the cost between the employer and employee,
with a substantial contribution from the state, is the only way in which this
large program may be realized.

On an assumption of an expense rate of 15 per cent gross (which is very high)
the gross average cost will be 2.888 -h .85 = 2.80 per cent. Distributed as
follows:

Employee 40 per cent or 1.12 per cent

Employer 40 " or 1.12"

State 20 " or .56

2.80 per cent.

IV. Fluctuations According to sick rate. Sick rate varies, according to
occupation, between 5 to 15 days (only in a few extremely unhealthy trades does
it rise above 15).

Minimum Maximum
5 days' 15 days'

sick rate sick rats

p. c. of wages p. c. of waget

Cost of sick benefit 835 2.505

Funeral 133 .133

Medical 293 .878

1.261 3.516 Administration 422 .422

1.683 3.938 'See "Recent Trend of Real Wages," American Economie Review, Dec,
1914, p. 793.

APPENDIX I

CONSTITUTIONALITY OF HEALTH
INSURANCE

By Joseph P. Chamberlain

Legislative Drafting Bureau, Columbia University

A Health insurance law should provide medical benefit for employees and their
families, including maternity benefit, cash payment during a given period to
employees unable to work on account of sickness, and funeral benefits. The
necessary funds should be raised by contributions from employers, employees,
and the state. Many questions of the constitutionality of such legislation
might arise in connection with particular provisions of state constitutions;
but it is not intended here to discuss any other limitations upon the
legislature than those contained in the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States and the similar provisions found in nearly
all the state constitutions: "nor shall any state deprive any person of life,
liberty, or property without due process of law, nor deny to any person within
its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." The first prohibition
brings before the Supreme Court any legislation affecting individual liberty
and property; the second prohibits arbitrary and unreasonable action in regard
to individuals or classes of individuals, so that a compulsory health-insurance
law must be submitted to judicial scrutiny.

The present necessity for brevity prevents any attempt to meet objections to
details of a possible law, so that all which will be attempted is to state
broadly the principles which must be kept in mind by drafters of the
health-insurance legislation which seems inevitable.

Presumption Of Constitutionality

It is important to remember that the courts should never declare an act of the
legislature unconstitutional unless its unconstitutionality is clearly proved.
The burden of proof, and it must be conclusive, is upon those who deny the
constitutionality of an act, while those who support it need only to refute
objections by raising a reasonable doubt in the minds of the judges that the
legislature has exceeded its powers.

Judge Cooley, a writer of great authority, says in his work on Constitutional
Limitations, p. 254:

"The constitutionality of a law, then, is to be presumed, because the
legislature, which was first required to pass upon the question, acting, as
they must be deemed to have acted, with integrity, and with a just desire to
keep within the restrictions laid by the constitution upon their action, have
adjudged that it is so."

He quotes from two early decisions of the U. S. Supreme Court to support his
contention, p. 253:

"The opposition between the constitution and the law should be such that the
judge feels a clear and strong conviction of their incompatibility with each
other."—Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch 87, 138.

"But if I could rest my opinion in favor of the constitutionality of the law on
which the question arises, on no other ground than this doubt so felt and
acknowledged, that alone would, in my estimation, be a satisfactory vindication
of it. It is but a decent respect due to the wisdom, the integrity, and the
patriotism of the legislative body by which any law is passed, to presume in
favor of its validity, until its violation of the constitution is proved beyond
all reasonable doubt."— Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213.

The Supreme Court has not modified its opinion. It says in Atkin v. Kansas, 191
U. S. 207, p. 223:

"We are reminded by counsel that it is the solemn duty of the courts in cases
before them to guard the constitutional rights of the citizen against merely
arbitrary power. That is unquestionably true. But it is equally true—indeed,
the public interests imperatively demand—that legislative enactments should be
recognized and enforced by the courts as embodying the will of the people,
unless they are plainly and palpably,

the Constitution."

The court of New York stated the same point although in a little different way:

"The people, in framing the constitution, committed to the legislature the
whole lawmaking power of the state which they did not expressly or impliedly
withhold. Plenary power in the legislature for all purposes of civil government
is the rule. A prohibition to exercise a particular power is an exception. In
inquiring, therefore, whether a given statute is constitutional, it is for
those who question its validity to show that it is forbidden."—People v. 
Draper, 15 N. Y. 532, 543.

The serious results which might flow from any other rule are very clearly
expressed in the same case:

"The wisdom of the conservative maxims of the courts is further exhibited by
the consideration that the legislatures are chosen at frequently occurring
elections and for short terms. Hence, if they err in expressing the wants of
the people, or exceed their powers, the error or excess may be quietly and
quickly corrected by the people themselves, through subsequently elected
representatives. But if this court wanders from its judicial orbit, and in its
progress collides with a coordinate power, when moving in its legitimate
sphere, who shall restore the system of harmony and regulate its dynamical

beyond all question, in violation

[graphic]

forces? Such collision most terminate either in judicial revolution or new
constitutional compacts" (p. 549).

See also Hoist v. Roe, 39 Ohio State 340.

In his powerful essay on " Constitutional Law/' Professor Thayer shows very
clearly the proper limit of the power of the court. Its duty is not to decide
whether or not the law is, in its own best judgment, in conformity with the
constitution, but is to determine whether as reasonable men a legislature could
have believed that they were within their power in passing it. "The ultimate
question is not what is the true meaning of the constitution, but whether (the
law) is sustainable or not." (Thayer, Legal Essays, p. 30.)

Poweh To Enact Laws To Promote Health

The first prohibition of the Fourteenth Amendment does not deprive the
legislature of power to pass laws under what is indefinitely known as the
police power, to promote or protect health. In the Boston Beer Company v. 
Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25, 33, the court says:

"Whatever differences of opinion may exist as to the extent and boundaries of
the police power, and however difficult It may be to render a satisfactory
definition of it, there seems to be no doubt that it does extend to the
protection of the lives, health, and property of the citizens, and to the
preservation of good order and the public morals. . . . They belong
emphatically to that class of objects which demand the application of the
maxim, Salus populi suprema lex; and they are to be attained and provided for
by such appropriate means as the legislative discretion may devise."

More recently in Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11, 25, the point is also
made:

"The police power of a state must be held to embrace, at least, such reasonable
regulations established directly by legislative enactment as will protect the
public health and the public safety."

Judge Holmes stated the case more broadly in the Noble State Bank v. Haskell,
219 U. S. 104, 111:

"It may be said in a general way that the police power extends to all the great
public needs. Camfield v. United States, 167 U. S. 518. It may be put forth in
aid of what is sanctioned by usage, or held by the prevailing morality or
strong and preponderant opinion to be greatly and immediately necessary to the
public welfare.''

The reason, the necessity, for leaving the legislatures free to deal with
health is laid down by the Supreme Court of the United States in Holden v. 
Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 397, quoting and approving the words of the Supreme Court
of Colorado:

"The whole is no greater than the sum of all the parts, and when the individual
health, safety, and welfare are sacrificed or neglected the state must suffer."

The Court of Appeals of New York states it thus in People v. Havnor, 149 N. Y.
195, 203:

"It is to the interest of the state to have strong, robust, healthy citizens,
capable of self-support, of bearing arms, and of adding to the resources of the
country. . . . The physical welfare of the citizen is a subject of such primary
importance to the state, and has such a direct relation to the general good, as
to make laws tending to promote that object proper under the police power, and
hence valid under the Constitution, which 'presupposes its existence and is to
be construed with reference to that fact.'"

The problem before the court in reconciling a healthinsurance law with the
Fourteenth Amendment will be whether health insurance is designed to improve
the public health and whether the particular act in question may be supported
as reasonable. The considerations which control it are laid down in McLean v. 
Arkansas, 211 U. S. 589, 547:

"It is also true that the police power of the state is not unlimited and is
subject to judicial review and, when exerted in an arbitrary or oppressive
manner, such laws may be annulled as violative of rights protected by the
Constitution. While the courts can set aside legislative enactments upon this
ground, the principles upon which such interference is warranted are as well
settled as is the right of judicial interference itself. The legislature being
familiar with local conditions is primarily the judge of the necessity of such
enactments. The mere fact that a court may differ with the legislature in its
views of public policy, or that judges may hold views inconsistent with the
propriety of the legislation in question, affords no ground for judicial
interference unless the act in question is unmistakably and palpably in excess
of legislative power."

Clearly, the limitations upon the power of the court make it certain that it
will but rarely declare unconstitutional acts which affect health. There is, it
is believed, no case in which a statute really regulating health has been held
unconstitutional by the Supreme Court. In one celebrated case the court
reviewed the operation of a statute which had been upheld in a state as a
health law and declared that it was not a health law and so reversed the state
court. (Lpchner v. N. Y., 198 U. S. 45; Freund on Police Power, p. 124.)

In determining whether or not a law is a health law and therefore whether it is
reasonable, the courts will consider the facts. In Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S.
412, the court considered a brief containing extracts from the laws of many
American states and foreign countries and extracts from economic reports both
in this country and in Europe. In Bosley v. McLaughlin, 236 U. S. 385, the
court quoted from a bulletin of the United States Bureau of Education. In
upholding the Washington Compulsory Compensation Law the state court depended
in part upon the opinions of "modern statesmen, jurists, and economic writers "
and the fact that the principle had been enacted into law in Europe. (State v. 
Clausen, 117 Pacific 1101.) The Court of Appeals of New York depended chiefly
upon the facts gathered by a legislative investigating commission to reverse
its former opinion that a law limiting night work for women was
unconstitutional. (People v. Charles Schweinler Press, 214 N. Y. 399.) The
evidence was admitted to show that the legislature had a sufficiently
reasonable basis for taking the action which it did to permit the court to
uphold the legislative decision. (See also Jacobson v. Massachusetts, supra;
Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299; People v. Havnor, supra; Holden v. Hardy,
supra; People v. Klinck Packing Co., 214 N. Y. 121.) If the legislature is
convinced that steps should be taken to care for the health of employees and
believes that the insurance method is the best way to do it, the cases hold
that the Supreme Court will not declare the statute unconstitutional if a
reasonable economic argument in its favor can be made. In that argument it may
be urged that health insurance is a long established and successful method of
conserving health in Europe.

A health law need not affect directly the whole population in order that its
purpose be public. It is sufficient if the health of the class affected be a
legitimate public interest, and many statutes and decisions testify to the fact
that the health of employees, or even of single classes of them, is a public
interest [see cases cited above]. Section 19 of Article I of the New York
Constitution permits the insurance of "employees" against "injury." The One Day
Rest in Seven Law recently passed in New York, which prohibits all employers in
factories or mercantile establishments from working their employees more than
six days in seven, was upheld in the case of The People v. Klinck Packing Co.
as "a valid exercise of the police power of the state for the promotion and
protection of the public health and welfare." A New York law prohibiting
barbers from working on Sundays was sustained for the same reason; the health
of a single class of working people, barbers, was held a public interest.
(People ». Havnor, supra.) In Booth v. Indiana, 237 U. S. 391, a statute which
provided for wash-houses in coal mines when requested by twenty or more men was
objected to as applying only to a particular class and as not therefore in the
interest of the public health. The United States Supreme Court held that its
previous decisions disposed of this point in favor of the constitutionality of
the law " and further comment is unnecessary." The decision in Lochner «. New
York, 198 U. S. 45, declaring unconstitutional the bakers' eight-hour law is
not an authority against this view. The court there says: " The act is not,
within any fair meaning of the term, a health law." It seems, therefore, clear
that the legislature may properly limit compulsory health insurance to all
manual workmen and for all employees up to a certain fixed limit of earnings.

Mr. Freund, the most frequently quoted text writer on the subject of the police
power, sums up his opinion on the constitutionality of compulsory health
insurance in § 437 of his book on Police Power:

"In a larpe sense, the community is certainly interested in averting sudden and
unexpected losses as well as the destitution

following from sickness and disease, and the distribution of these losses over
large numbers through insurance is a legitimate end of governmental policy.
There is no warrant for denying the state the power to adopt compulsory
measures for the purpose; whether such measures should be adopted where public
sentiment is averse to such policy, and the same objects are adequately
attained by voluntary co-operation, is a question of policy and not of law. It
may, however, be safely asserted that compulsory insurance requires that either
the state itself becomes the insurer, or that it exercise an efficient control
over private or semi-public associations which the individual is compelled to
join; for this alone eliminates from the problem the difficulty that the state
would force the individual to enter into contract relations with other private
parties without substantially guaranteeing performance to the individual who is
required to part with his money."

Classification

A health-insurance law will bring under compulsory insurance all employees
engaged in manual labor and all others earning less than a certain salary,
Therefore, the question will arise whether the legislature may fairly put them
in a class for the purpose of the insurance as against other persons both to
require them to pay contributions and to grant them the benefits. If employers
also are singled out as a class on whom part of the burden is to be placed,
another difficulty of classification arises. The courts are very liberal in
construing the power of the legislature to classify the objects of legislation.
Unless this classification is clearly arbitrary and unfair or unless it has no
connection with the object to be attained, the courts will sustain it and will
not require that it should be a classification which they themselves would have
made. In Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, the court, on page
78, lays down rules which have been since frequently quoted to determine what
is permissible classification:

"The rules by which this contention must be tested, as is shown by repeated
decisions of this court, are these: 1. The equal protection clause of the 14th
amendment does not take from the state the power to classify in the adoption of
police laws, but admits of the exercise of a wide scope of discretion in that
regard, and voids what is done only when it is without any reasonable basis,
and therefore is purely arbitrary. 2. A classification having some reasonable
basis does not offend against that clause merely because it is not made with
mathematical nicety, or because in practice it results in some inequality. 3.
When the classification in such a law is called in question, if any state of
facts reasonably can be conceived that would sustain it, the existence of that
slate of facts at the time the law was enacted must be assumed. 4. One who
assails the classification in such a law must carry the burden of showing that
it does not rest upon any reasonable basis, but is essentially arbitrary."

Very recently, in passing upon the classification made in the Ohio voluntary
compensation law which distinguished between employers of five men or mote and
those of under five men, the court said:

"This court has many times affirmed the general proposition that it is not the
purpose of the 14th amendment in the equal protection clause to take from the
states the right and power to classify the subjects of legislation. It is only
when such attempted classification is arbitrary and unreasonable that the court
can declare it beyond the legislative authority. Lindsley «. Natural Carbonic
Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78. That a law may work hardship and inequality is not
enough; many valid laws, from the generality of their application, necessarily
do that and the legislature must be allowed a wide field of choice in
determining the subject-matter of its laws, what shall come within them and
what shall be excluded." (Jeffrey Mfg. Co. v. Blagg, 235 U. S. 571, 576.)

[Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138, 144.

Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Cade, 233 U. S. 642, 650.

International Harvester Co. v. Missouri, 234 U. S. 199, 215.

Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373, 384.

Price v. 111., 238 U. S. 446, 453.]

If, therefore, the classification proposed is broadly reasonable, the law will
not be invalidated by the fact that certain employees or certain employers will
not get a benefit equal to that received by others, or that their contributions
will not be nicely adjusted to the exact relation of the sickness rate of their
trade or shop with sickness rates with other trades or shops. The grounds for
limiting compulsory insurance to certain employees and for singling out
employers as contributors have been explained in the preceding chapters. Can it
be said that under the liberal rule laid down by the court they would not
justify the broad classification proposed?

Assessment Of Contributions

It is no new thing for the legislature to authorize the taking of property by
assessment for purposes calculated to promote the public health or public
interest—for instance, the contributions for sewers. These assessments are laid
under the police rather than the taxing power, and, in any case, are not
subject to the general constitutional limitations on the taxing power; nor is
the money raised subject to limitations on the expenditure of money for general
state or local purposes. (Cooley on Taxation, 3rd Edition, Chs. XIX, XXI,
especially on p. 1300, and p. 1168, Taxation by Assessment, Page & Jones, § 5,
§ 78 ss, Paulsen v. Portland, 149 U. S. 30.)

Under the Drainage Act in New York, persons owning property may be compelled to
pay for its drainage if commissioners appointed by the county court decide that
drainage would benefit the public health. (Matter of Ryers, 72 N. Y. 1; Matter
of Lent, 47 A. D. 349; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97.) A statute enacted
in several Western states requires all land holders within a district to pay
assessments to provide and maintain a supply of water for irrigation. Even
though the person assessed did not need the water and objected to the formation
of the district he must assume his share of the burden. (Fallbrook Irrigation
District v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112; see also Hagar v. Reclamation District, 111
U. S. 701.)

The legislature has authorized taxation of particular occupations or property
to create funds for special purposes, and the legislation has been held to be
an exercise of the police rather than of the taxing power. Insurance agents
have been taxed to raise money for the support of firemen's benevolent
associations. (See Firemen's Benevolent Association v. Lounsbury, 21 111. 511;
Exempt Firemen's Benevolent Fund v. Roome, 93 N. Y. 313.)

Owners of dogs have been taxed to create a fund out of which damages are paid
to the owners of sheep killed by dogs. (McGlone v. Womack, 129 Ky. 274; Hoist
v. Roe, 39 Ohio State 340; Van Horn v. People, 46 Mich. 183.)

Banks have been taxed on their deposits to create a fund out of which
depositors in banks becoming insolvent are to be repaid. (Noble State Bank v. 
Haskell, 219 U. S. 104; People v. Walker, 17 N. Y. 502.)

A system of land registration known as the Torrens Act adopted in many states
provides for a tax on all property registered to form a fund from which claims
against registered property are paid. (§ 426 Real Property Law of New York, as
amended Ch. 547, L. 1916.)

The United States formerly collected from the masters or owners of vessels a
monthly tax of 40 cents for each sailor to support the marine hospital service.
The master or owner was empowered to retain this sum from the wages of the
sailor. (§ 4585 Revised Statutes, abolished by Act of June 26, 1884; Freund,
Police Power, § 434.)

The legislature furthermore has often taken the property of employer and
employee for the benefit of the health of the employee. The right to freely
contract for labor is a property right both of the employer and of the
employee, and the right to a "proper and free use of his property" is another
property right of every individual. (Ritchie & Co. v. Wayman, 244 111. 509, p.
518, and In re Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98, p. 105.) An employee may, as was said by
the United States Supreme Court in Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45, desire to
earn extra money by working more than eight hours, and a statute limiting hours
of work would prevent his earning it. Limitations upon either of these rights,
though the taking of property under the fourteenth amendment, have, when not
unreasonable, been held constitutional as health laws. A statute limiting the
workday of miners to eight hours was upheld in Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366.
That the legislature may prohibit Sunday work for barbers was affirmed in Petit
v. Minnesota, 177 U. S. 164; People ». Havnor, 149 N. Y. 145, or railroad men
in Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299. Women have the same right to labor as
men, yet their workday may be reduced to ten hours in certain employments,
Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412, or even to eight, Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S.
373, and they may be forbidden from doing night work, People v. Schweinler
Press, 214 N. Y. 399- All employees in factories or mercantile establishments
can be compelled to quit work one day in seven, People v. Klinck Packing Co.,
214 N. Y. 121.

The question as to use of property of the employer is fully brought out in
People v. Havnor, in which a proprietor of a barber shop urged that a statute
which prevented barbers from working on Sundays deprived him of his property by
"preventing the free use of his premises, tools and labor, and thus rendering
them less productive." The court said: "Whatever prevents him from freely using
his lands or chattels is a deprivation of his property," (p. 199), but held
that the taking was constitutional, as it was in the interest of the public
health. The right to property is protected by the same words of the
constitution as the right to liberty. It has been frequently held that the
right to liberty included the freedom to make contracts to buy and sell labor;
but this liberty may be in part taken away from employer and from employee by
legislation regulating the hours of labor. [See cases cited above.]

If it is permissible, as in the one day rest in seven laws, to deprive the
employee of the right to work and, therefore, to earn wages during one day in
seven, if it is proper to prevent his working more than eight hours or ten
hours, and, therefore, deprive him of a certain portion of the income which he
might otherwise have received, and if these property rights can be taken from
him only on the score of the benefit to his health, it certainly cannot be
argued that the state may not compel him to contribute a reasonable share of
his earnings to provide for his health. If an employer must be content to lose
his right to contract with an employee for work on one day in the week, if his
right to use his property to its best advantage may be curtailed by the
requirement that he allow each one of his employees one day off in seven, or
even that he, as in some Sundaylaws, cease operations altogether, and if his
property right to freely contract with his employees and his right to use his
plant are affected by statutes limiting the number of hours of labor, and all
for the benefit of the health of his employees, can it be maintained that in
principle the state cannot require him to contribute directly toward a
provision for the health of his employees?

The fourteenth amendment will stand in the way of arbitrary and unreasonable
assessment. (Davidson v. New Orleans, supra.) There must be either a reasonable
expectation of benefit to the contributors or it must appear that the
legislature might reasonably require them to make some provision for the
protection of employees. There must be a relation between the subject of the
assessment and the object for which the money is to be spent, similar to the
relation between the ownership of dogs and the killing of sheep; the business
of an insurance agent and firemen's benevolent funds; the ownership of marsh
lands and the necessity for drainage; the operation of a factory and the need
of the operators for one day's rest in seven. This is a question of fact. But
the action of the court, in allowing great weight to the proof of actual
conditions in passing upon labor legislation, will make the task of the
proponents of health-insurance laws much easier. (" Hours of Labor and Realism
in Constitutional Law," by Felix Frankfurter, Harvard Law Review, Vol. XXIX,
No. 4.)

New York Constitution

In New York the question of the constitutionality of health insurance seems
settled by Section 19 of Article I of the constitution, which clearly extends
the power of the legislature beyond making provision for trade accidents and
occupational disease, and the case of Jensen v. Southern Pacific Company, 215
N. Y. 514, holding that a compulsory act to provide insurance against
industrial accidents passed under that section is not in conflict with the
Fourteenth Amendment of the United States Constitution.

"Workmen's Compemation. § 19. Nothing contained in this Constitution shall be
construed to limit the power of the Legislature to enact laws for the
protection of the lives, health, or safety of employees; or for the payment,
either by employers, or by employers and employees, or otherwise, either
directly or through a state or other system of insurance or otherwise, of
compensation for injuries to employees or for death of employees resulting from
such injuries without regard to fault as a cause thereof."

Evidently "injuries to employees" does not refer to accidents alone or to
industrial injuries alone. The words "by accident" used in workmen's
compensation laws to limit the word "injuries" are significantly omitted. The
Constitution of California uses the word "injury " without this limitation
(Art. XX, § 21) and in that state the statute formerly reading "injuries by
accident" has been changed by omitting the words "by accident" in order to
include disease. (Chap. 607, Acts of 1915.) In Massachusetts, where the word
"injury" alone was used and there were no complications to create difficulty,
the word has been held to include disease. (Johnson v. London Guarantee &
Accident Co., 104 N. E. 735; Hurle v. American Mutual Accident Co., 217 Mass.
223.)

The words "arising out of and in the course of employment" used to limit
workmen's compensation acts to purely industrial injuries were deliberately
omitted from Section 19, as is shown by the fact that they were contained in
substitute amendments rejected by the legislature. Article XX, § 21 of the
California Constitution also contained these limiting words and this
constitutional provision was in effect at the time of the adoption of the New
York amendment. No law or bill creating a system of workmen's compensation for
industrial accident and occupational disease has ever included cash
contributions by employees or the state; but the various systems of health and
other forms of social insurance in existence in Europe at the time Section 19
was adopted were based on the principle of joint contributions authorized by
the amendment. The provision in the California Constitution, restricted to
"injuries in the course of . . . employment," authorizes the legislature to put
a burden upon "employers" alone.

It would be difficult to find words more appropriate than those used in Section
19 to confer on the legislature that full discretion in dealing with all
injuries to employees which was the obvious purpose of the amendment. A
constitutional amendment, drawn for the express purpose of vesting discretion
in the legislature to deal as it thought proper with the problem of providing
for employees' injuries due to sickness, would practically repeat the language
of Section 19

So far as the New York Constitution is concerned, then, it may be argued that
there is nothing to prevent a system of health insurance wholly paid for by the
employers or wholly paid for by the state or generally by employer, employee,
and the state. The Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution, however,
gives supervisory power to the courts, state and federal, to prevent the
operation of state laws which unreasonably burden any one class or individual.
Probably a law putting the whole burden of sickness of employees on employers
would be held unreasonable and, therefore, unconstitutional, but can it be
denied that a contribution by employers to a health-insurance fund would be
justified by the present information of the share of industry in causing and in
accelerating disease and by the consideration of the advantage gained by an
employer from improved health of his workmen, especially if the act limited
correspondingly his liability in damage suits?

The Jensen case, furthermore, clearly adopts the view that the compensation law
there approved was an insurance law passed under the " police power " of the
state; that it was not a mere improvement on the method of settling and paying
legal claims and a mere extension of the liability of the employer. Both
employer and employee gave up rights. From the employer is taken his right to
limit recovery to cases of fault; from the employee his right to full payment
as assessed by a jury for injuries caused by fault, "his contribution to an
insurance scheme designed for his benefit." Could a health-insurance law be
better described than by these sentences in that decision:

"Surely it is competent for the state in the promotion of the general welfare
to require both employer and employee to yield something toward the
establishment of a principle and plan

of compensation for their mutual protection and advantage. Any plan devised by
the wit of man may in exceptional cases work unjustly, but the act is to be
judged by its general plan and scope and the general good to be promoted by it.
Fortunately the courts have not attempted to define the limits of the police
power. Its elasticity makes progress possible under a written constitution
guaranteeing individual rights" (p. 528).

The court, in the Jensen case, relies on the Oklahoma Bank Tax case, Noble
State Bank v. Haskell, as an authority in its argument that the law is not
forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment. In that case Judge Holmes says, in the
same vein:

"It would seem that there may be other cases besides the everyday one of
taxation, in which the share of each party in the benefit of a scheme of mutual
protection is sufficient compensation for the correlative burden that it is
compelled to assume" (p. 111).

There is no logical difference between sickness caused by negligence and
accident caused by negligence. With the removal of the common law defenses and
the advance in medical and sanitary knowledge a wide field is opened for
employers' liability. Increasingly the labor law puts the "health" of employees
on the same plane as their "safety." "Sanitary" is included as one of the
requirements of a safe working place. While these provisions may not in
themselves constitute a basis for suits for common law damages, they show a
growing opinion that loss through sickness is on the same plane as loss through
accident, an opinion which will form the basis for an extended liability
through a growth of the law by court decision or by legislation. (New York
Labor Law §51-a, subdiv 2, §20-b; Burdick on Torts, third edition, §183;
Collins v*. Harrison 64 L. R. A. 156.) The justification for requiring
contributions of the employees, aside from the authority of the Jensen case,
could clearly be based on the benefit which they get and on the fact that much
sickness arises from their habits of living and personal carelessness. As to
the state's contribution, it cannot be doubted that the health of the people is
a public purpose and that either public or private institutions supervised by
the state, which may clearly be said to improve the public health, may receive
state aid. (See Freund on Police Power, §§ 433-437, inclusive.)

APPENDIX II

ORGANIZATION OF MEDICAL AID

Preliminary Report to the Social Insurance Committee of the American
Association for Labor Legislation

By Alexander Lambert, M.D.

In considering any scheme of medical relief under the Sickness Insurance Act
one must consider it from three points of view: the medical point of view, the
patient's point of view, and the view of the insurance-carriers.

In beginning the consideration of the medical point of view, it is necessary to
consider certain medical customs and habits of thought. The medical service is
always an individual one and the state requires it to be individual. Medical
public opinion demands that the physician shall give an adequate and just
service to his patient and that the physician shall not permit himself to be
placed in positions where he gives careless, incompetent service to the injury
of those under his care. Any physician neglecting this standard loses caste. He
is condemned by his colleagues, and the position or system in which such
service is likely to occur is held in contempt by the profession and has been
classified under the opprobrious name of " contract practice." All medical
service is really a contract, and many physicians under salaries, such as with
insurance companies or railroads, are not condemned, nor do they lose caste by
accepting such contracts. But any contract which carries with it an
unreasonable amount of work by the doctor, which in turn forces neglectful,
hurried service to the patients, is always condemned. These situations are
usually found in certain lumbering and mining camps and under other
corporations, and in the familiar lodge practice in large cities.

Lodge practice and other condemned forms of contract practice are all under the
capitation plan of remuneration, and the capitation idea of service under
sickness insurance has necessarily these inherent faults which cannot be
eradicated and can only be controlled to a limited extent if they can be
controlled at all. By this form of capitation is meant the per patient per year
form of payment to the doctor. Another form of capitation which is used abroad
is frequently used in a compromise with the free choice system of the doctor by
the patient; that is, a sickness society has a certain amount of funds that it
can pay for medical services to the doctors. This lump sum it gives to some
association of doctors, and the physicians charge up each visit and each act of
service rendered to each patient as so many points of work done against the
medical society. At'the end of the year, each physician hands in his account to
the medical society and the total number of points are divided into the total
amount of funds, and the remuneration paid to the physicians pro rata. The two
faults in this country for this method are that there is no society or
association of physicians which is sufficiently universal in its membership to
justify such a procedure, for many men who would work among the working classes
do not belong to the medical societies, and if any control was attempted
through the present societies, there would be many doctors working among the
insured who would be beyond such control; and, furthermore, in times of great
amount of sickness, the more work that is done the less is each point of
service worth, and after a certain amount of services has been given by the
physicians the more work they do, the less money do they receive in ratio to
work done. If the total amount paid by the societies remained the same, and if
twice as much work were done by the doctors in an epidemic as in an average
year, each point would be worth half as much and the remuneration would be the
same under great stress of work as under an average year. This is not just
remuneration and would soon bring a resentment on the part of physicians
because of undervaluation of their work and the injustice in it, and there soon
would develop a situation similar to the other form of capitation of
overcrowded work and the underpaid men.

There is, in some parts of Germany, the regularly paid physician under definite
salary from the society. This might or might not work out well, because it
would be a similar form of contract to that of the railroad surgeons, but it
would be very liable in sickness insurance to be abused, and soon the inherent
faults, as in capitation, would develop. Moreover, any sicknessinsurance
society could only hire a certain number of physicians, and unless they
arbitrarily refused free choice of physicians to their members and divided them
in equal numbers among their salaried physicians, the natural difference in
personality of the physicians would

immediately cause some of their practices to be overcrowded while others were
neglected, and again the inherent faults under capitation develop.

One comes to the other form of medical service— that of visitation, i.e., a
stated fee per visit per patient, or with a fee graded according to character
of services, with free choice of the physician by the insured, either with an
unlimited number of patients or with a limited number of patients under a panel
system, by which a definite number of patients can be apportioned to any one
doctor and under which all patients must be apportioned to some doctor,—this
with the consent of the physicians and patients; or, absolute free choice of
the physician by the patient, with no panel and no control by the Commission of
the physician through his position on the panel; or free choice of the
physician by the patient, with control of the physicians through a series of
committees.

It has been generally claimed that free choice of physicians and this
visitation method of so much per patient per visit always increases the number
of visits and the expense of medical care to the insuring societies. These
claims, however, were not substantiated in an investigation of the subject in
Manchester, England. There is no question that from the medical point of view
the visitation system is the most just. There is no question from the patients'
point of view that they obtain by this means the best service. There is less
danger of neglectful and overcrowded services being rendered to them; it
eliminates the inherent faults of the capitation system but increases the
expense over capitation because it gives a fair return which capitation does
not do. It seems to increase the opportunity for malingering and simulation,
which, unless controlled, become the bane and ruin of any social-insurance
system.

The ethics of any profession are but the moral customs of the general community
modified to suit peculiar services which that given profession performs, and
the ethics of the average member of any profession will not rise any higher
than the average of the community in which he lives. In any community,
therefore, there will be dishonest physicians whose acts must be controlled
that they may render an honest return to the patients and to the
insurance-carriers. Therefore, this human factor necessitates a scheme by which
this control can be most economically and efficiently exerted. The German
system of committees composed of workingmen and physicians seems to meet this
situation best. For example, the Leipzig sickness fund has a representative
Medical Committee of the Society doctors, a Conciliation Committee, and an
Arbitration Committee. This Medical Committee is composed of twelve members
chosen every two years by the doctors in the service of the Society. The duties
of the Committee relate primarily to the constant supervision and the control
of the work of the Society doctors, also to calculating and dividing the
remuneration of the doctors and to the maintenance of their rights and
interests. They scrutinize the charges that the doctors make; they scrutinize
the prescriptions of the doctors for other medical or surgical requirements;
they scrutinize the number of persons certified by each doctor who are unable
to work, and the length of time of the inability according to statistics
prepared by the Society; they determine where there has been improper excess of
the normal average. In case of serious default, as regards certifying patients
as unable to work, the Committee deducts from the remuneration of the doctor,
for the benefit of the Society, the excess charges incurred in consequence of
the default in payment of benefit. The Committee communicates semiannually to
all the Society doctors the result of the statistical preparations on which
they have based their work.

This physicians' committee can discipline the doctors when it is found they
have been seriously at fault by taking one of the following actions, in
addition to making deductions from the doctor's remuneration. They can give him
advice or written warning, or, after two unheeded warnings, temporary
suspension of from one to twelve months from attendance on society patients.
The doctor in default, however, must be heard before a written warning or
suspension is invoked. If the doctor has been twice temporarily excluded from
the Society practice, without result, if the Society does not use its right to
give the doctor a notice to terminate his contract, the Committee may make
request to the Arbitration Committee that the doctor be permanently excluded
from Society practice. Complaints made by the patient or by the Society in
regard to the practice of a doctor are brought before this Medical Committee
for its opinion, and the opinion given on the case is communicated to the
doctor by the Committee. Circulars and directions which the Society proposes to
issue to the doctors are first submitted to the Committee for its opinion;
complaints by a doctor against the Society have first to be communicated to the
Committee, which has to give an opinion to the, doctor on the complaint. This
opinion shall be communicated to the Society. Complaints by doctors in regard
to members of the Society are to be communicated by the Committee only if the
managing committee of the Society does not give satisfaction to the doctor in
regard to the complaints.

It is thus seen that this Committee stands between the general mass of doctors
doing work among the insured and the insuring societies. Although the Leipzig
Medical Committee of twelve seems to be too large for the best results, any
medical committee is able from its expert point of view to understand the
viewpoint of the medical profession, which is peculiar to it in matters of
ethics and standards, and it can more readily deal out justice because of this
expert knowledge. In this country, however, it has heretofore been difficult to
obtain discipline of the members of the profession by committees of the
profession. Any development toward this end, in New York State in particular,
has been further discouraged by several cases in the courts in which medical
societies have endeavored to discipline, by expulsion, members guilty of what
was believed to be wrong-doing. The courts have almost invariably forced the
societies to reinstate the objectionable members and have further delivered to
the societies a severe scolding because some minute legal technicalities had
not been complied with. The profession has felt that the intricacies of the law
have blocked the development of medical control by the profession itself, and
the regulation of the profession by the profession in New York State has not
developed to the extent that it should have done. Whether or not, under a
sickness-insurance law, adequate control of the medical profession by a medical
committee would be possible, cannot be foretold. With this responsibility,
however, thrown upon their shoulders and with adequate rules for protection,
through such committees, the medical profession should be able to bring about
the desired results. If, however, this is not possible, then the medical
profession must face the issue of whether or not it will be forced to accept a
lay control or a combination of control by laymen and physicians.

A special Conciliation Committee should be appointed for deliberation on
questions which appear to require consultation between any society and its
doctors, and for the friendly consideration of all kinds of differences. In the
Leipzig Society, such a committee is further described as consisting of the
chairman of the managing committee of the Sickness Society and of the
representative Medical Committees. Such a committee, however, should be a small
committee of but, probably, three members, that its efficiency and activity
should be at a maximum, and it should be composed of a workman and an employer
and a physician, and should be subject to the call of any one of its members.

The Arbitration Committee should be composed of workmen, employers, and
physicians, presided over by a member of the Commission, and one member of the
committee should be a lawyer. It should be the final committee of appeal from
the Medical Committee and the Conciliation Committee, and should be the final
committee for discipline of physicians regarding their expulsion and should
hear all appeals made from the decision of the Medical or Conciliation
Committee. All appeals and disputes between physicians and the insuring so

cieties or between physicians and any of the insured should also go through it
to the Commission.

These committees should not serve without pay. The custom of most corporations
in this country of paying a gold piece to their directors at each meeting
should be followed in these committee meetings to the extent of giving some
definite stipend for attendance at the meeting. Work of this character is
arduous, and positions on the committees should be honorable positions and
recompense should be given for the work done.

In all sickness insurance there is one mooted question that constantly arises,
and that is, Who shall decide any dispute between a physician and an insured
member as to whether or not this patient should go back to work and his
benefits cease? There is always trouble if this work is left to the physician
alone. Patients will demand leniency, will go to the doctors who are lenient,
and physicians, unless of rugged character, will be afraid of losing their
patients and injuring their income unless they are lenient, and thus the
expense of the insurance-carriers will be enormously increased by a continuance
on the sick list of patients who should be at work. If, whenever this mooted
point arises, the decision could be referred to some impersonal committee or to
some regularly constituted, salaried medical referee, it would enormously
improve the working of the insurance act. There will probably be required a
medical inspection department under a medical referee or referees to control
malingering and valetudinarianism.

There is no intention at this time of going into the details of the regulations
necessary for the smoothrunning of a sickness-insurance scheme. That must be
left as a matter between the various societies and the physicians on the panel;
it must be worked out under the Commission and will undoubtedly vary in
different sections of the state. It is doubtful if the remuneration to the
physicians per patient per visit will vary much in different parts of the state
because the sickness insurance is limited to persons of definitely limited
wages. The compensation law now demands that medical services shall be paid
subj ect to regulation by the commission and shall be limited to such charges
as prevail in the community for similar treatment of injured persons of a like
standard of living, but does not limit the wages of those employed who are
subject to the Act.

From the patients' point of view, efficient medical service is necessary. Any
general sickness-insurance law among the poor will develop an increase of
medical service and demands. Some form of sickness or injury has been the
calamity through which the poverty of the poor has been changed to destitution
in the majority of those applying to charity for aid, so that often all that
has separated poverty from destitution has been the ability of the wage-earner
to go to work each day. Just so soon as the wage-earners realize that they can
have medical care as their due, without further expense than already borne by
them, it is bound to increase enormously the demands on the medical profession.
Of course, after a few years, when they become used to the idea, the mass of
trivial and unnecessary calls will diminish, but a certain amount of
unsuspected sickness among the poor will come to light and will probably
increase the necessities of medical care beyond any calculated expectations.
Adequate medical services to the patient must contain, at times, the
possibilities of more than the average practitioner can necessarily furnish.
The standard demanded from the individual practitioner will probably not exceed
that demanded under the English Act, which considers that adequate medical
attention and treatment is that treatment of a kind which can consistently,
with the best interests of the patient, be properly undertaken by a general
practitioner of ordinary professional competence and skill. The physicians of
the Book Printers' Sickness Fund, of Berlin, agree to care for all members not
requiring hospital treatment and to expedite recovery to the best of their
power. In the Leipzig Sickness Fund, physicians agree to give requisite
treatment in accordance with the recognized custom of the medical profession.
The English Act does no more than provide the advice of the panel doctor as to
how further treatment may be obtained. It fails noticeably to furnish expert
care or advice or adequate hospital accommodations; it only attempts to provide
this in tuberculosis.

In the Sickness Societies of Germany there are many specialists to whom the
patients may go. The Leipzig Society employed 130 specialists and 24 dental
surgeons out of its total of 400 doctors; the Dresden Society 64 out of its
total of 226. These necessary details of organization must be left to the
arrangement of the local societies. There is no doubt, however, but that the
details of what is ordinary and what is extra work, such as the difference
between day calls and night calls, the difference between office visits and
home visits, the detail of the ability of the general practitioner to call in a
consultant if he or the patient shall demand it, what shall be the fees under
these circumstances, or whether all consultation work shall be done by the
medical referees, are all questions coming up for decision.

There is no question that modern medical treatment demands more team work among
physicians than was formerly done. The bacteriological examinations of sputum,
of throat cultures, etc., are done in this country free of charge by the city
and state departments of health. But X-ray diagnoses and any other special
diagnostic procedures must still come under the specialist category.

This brings us to the question of the dispensaries, and back of the
dispensaries, the hospitals. Up to this time the dispensaries and the hospitals
have been the expression of the amount of free medical care that the city or
state governments, or private corporations, were willing to give to the poor. A
well conducted and well organized dispensary offers the most economical and
efficient method of giving to the patients the many specialized medical
services that the varying nature of their illnesses may require. More
diversified medical and surgical work is performed in the dispensaries than is
performed in the hospitals. There is less specialized service in the majority
of the hospitals than in any dispensary of even moderate size. But there are
more hospitals given over to special work than there are dispensaries so
constituted, although most special hospitals have also a dispensary attached to
them for the sake of obtaining patients to fill the hospitals. Most of the
medical positions in dispensary or hospital are occupied without remuneration,
the medical experience being sufficient compensation in this country for
whatever time or knowledge the doctor may bestow. Abroad, in certain countries,
similar positions have a salary attached to them, and medical men are not
expected to give their medical or surgical knowledge and services
uncompensated.

Under the Sickness Insurance Law, the general dispensaries present
opportunities for an adequate and welldeveloped method of furnishing abundant
services in special branches of medical or surgical care to all patients who
are not too sick for hospital care and who may require some special service
which the average general practitioner cannot give them. The situation,
however, will arise whether or not the dispensaries should be confined to the
use of the development of the specialties and all the general medical care
given in the homes of the patients, or whether patients shall be allowed to
choose between their own doctor and some general practitioner in the dispensary
as far as the general medical care is concerned. This is a question which
contains serious possibility of dispute. It may be that the general medical
classes of a dispensary may, in the end, be developed into a place where
patients may go for expert diagnosis on the plane of the consultant, being
referred back to their physician for care or being referred to specialists if
such be necessary; the dispensary becoming then an institution for special care
or expert diagnosis and not containing, as now, classes in ordinary internal
medicine. However this may be decided, medical services rendered in the
dispensary must, in future, receive remuneration, and free dispensaries soon be
a thing of the past. Physicians in the dispensaries, moreover, must be under
control of the com

mittees controlling the doctors in general insurance practice, and if the
dispensaries are run by private corporations, it must be within the power of
the Commission to forbid persons under the Insurance Act to go to dispensaries
which do not give adequate medical service. In all probability, if the
Commission should publish to the insured that a certain dispensary was failing
to give adequate medical care, the stigma of such publication would soon force
any private corporation to give adequate medical services. The rules and
regulations by which patients are permitted to accept the hospital provision of
the Sickness Insurance Act will have to be under definite agreement and the
care received in the hospitals under definite supervision.

Under the Workmen's Compensation Law, disputes arise because in the same ward
one patient will be under the Compensation Law and another not, and any surgeon
is liable to be accused by the patient not under the Compensation Law of
neglecting him and favoring the man under Compensation, because of the extra
fee given to the surgeon. The Workmen's Compensation Law makes certain poor
patients pay-patients and necessarily leaves others out of this category.
Sickness Insurance Laws will probably act in the same way in the medical wards
in the same hospitals, and the human element of envy and resentment on the part
of the patients will bring many disputes and complaints of the service rendered
to them. It is doubtful if the attending physicians and surgeons in the large
public hospitals should take positions on insurance panels. It would seem wiser
if they did not. They usually have reached a position in their profession where
their private practice is not among those persons who will be insured by the
Sickness Insurance Act. It would seem wiser, therefore, that it should become a
custom that the attending physicians, at least, should care for all alike
without remuneration and that the special work required by the Sickness
Insurance should be done by some assistant and not by the attending physician.
The attending physician, therefore, in charge, would give his services to all
alike and there could be no criticism or envy on the part of the patient for
care received. The decision required by the Sickness Insurance Act as to when
the patient was ready to leave the hospital and go to work, of filling out the
certificate necessary under the working of the Act, the special daily hospital
care and attention required, should be done by some assistant against whom the
question of unequal attention between patients could not arise. Adequate
supervision of smaller hospitals in which there is no house staff must be
formulated by the Commission, for there is no question, as stated above, that
adequate medical and surgical service must be given and must be controlled,
whether this service be in the homes of the patients or in the hospitals and
dispensaries to which they may go.

From the point of view of the insuring societies, they must realize that they
must give to the medical profession an adequate remuneration for work done, and
in return for a just fee they have a right to demand that the service given
shall be of full time and medically adequate. The German method of giving
generously a little more than the strict letter of the law demands in drugs,
spectacles, trusses, and all medical and surgical apparatus, to the insured
should be followed rather than the inadequate English method of giving only the
cheapest medical and surgical appliances and refusing to give adequate
spectacles or other surgical appliances because they are of more than average
expense. The result in Germany has been a diminution of the length of time that
medical benefits have been paid, and the result in England has been a long
continuance of patients on the sick lists drawing money benefits. Judging from
the Fabian report, the English method has been truly one of "penny wise, pound
foolish."

We have considered here the working and necessities of medical care and control
under a compulsory sickness insurance as exemplified chiefly in England and
Germany, as these two types of compulsory insurance give the best examples of
the results of the various methods employed for the carrying out of compulsory
sickness insurance. Many difficulties of administration and many failures in
administration have developed in both countries through the employment of the
capitation plan of remuneration to the physicians. In Germany this has resulted
in bitter animosity between the medical profession and the insuring societies
and bitter contests for increased remuneration in which, in the enormous
majority of contests, the physicians have won. In England it has resulted in
inadequate care being given to the majority of the insured under the Act. In
this country it would seem to be useless to attempt to repeat the inherent
faults of capitation payment, and medical opinion and customs in this country
are already in vigorous antagonism to this form of "contract practice." It
would seem unwise, therefore, to start with the bitter antagonism of the
medical profession against capitation. This would seem to force the necessity
in this country of a remuneration based on the visitation system. With this
point of view clearly recognized, many difficulties experienced abroad will not
occur and, in fact, the chief stumbling block to the successful carrying out of
the law is removed.

INDEX

Accidents, 44-54; industrial,
and health insurance, 48-
55; mortality from, 45;
non-industrial, 47.

Actuarial difficulties of in-
validity insurance, 63.

Administration, expenses un-
der private insurance.
193; organization, 304-13;
in social insurance, 269.

Age, effect upon cost, 215;
and rates of contribution,
224-6; limits, exception
for, 37.

Agency system, waste of, 191.

Agricultural laborers, insur-
ance for, 32-3.

Alaska, compensation act, 54.

Albany hearing on health in-
surance, 139, 175, 197.

American Association for La-
bor Legislation, 3, 9,
100-1, 113, 169, 173, 250,
260, 295; health insurance
bill of, 53; social insur-
ance committee, 7.

American compensation acts,
maximum benefits under,
103; waiting period un-
der, 107.

American Economic Review,
15, 274.

American Labor Legislation
Review, 9.

American Medical Associa-
tion, 93, 246.

Appliances, provision for, 149.

Arbitration committees for
medical disputes, 299, 302.

"Arising out of," meaning of,
291.

Arizona, compensation act,
medical aid under, 54.

Assessment, constitutionality
of, 285-9.

Assessment system, advan-
tages of, 221.

Australia, maternity benefits,
123; old age pensions,
163.

Austria, health insurance, 11,
18, 20; employers' con-
tribution, 156; extent of,
31; industrial acccidents
under, 50, 158; maternity
benefits, 123; organiza-
tion of, 189; money bene-
fits, duration, 105; scale
of, 110.

Belgium, compulsory health
insurance, 20, 21; vol-
untary health insurance,
20; number insured, 22.

Berger, Victor, old age pen-
sion bill, 4.

Block, Mrs. A. C, on health
insurance, 138.

Book Printers' Sickness
Fund, of Berlin, 305.

Bosnia-Herzegovina, mater-
nity insurance, 123.

Bremen, medical aid to mem-
bers of family, 90.

Burritt, B. B., 4.

California, compensation act,
2; "injury," meaning of,
290; scale of benefits,
107; occupational diseases
under, 55-7; state insur-
ance, 179.

Capitation system, 996.
Carr, Gamett, and Taylor,
225.

Casual laborers, health insur-
ance for, 32, 34.

Casualty Actuarial and Sta-
tistical Society, proceed-
ings, 3, 45, 228.

Central administration for
health insurance, 210.

Chamberlain, J. P., 9; on
constitutionality of health
insurance, 275-94.

Childbirth, mortality from,
- 126.

Children, mortality of, 91,
128.

Clark, W. E., 16.
Classification, constitutionality
of, 283.

Clerical employees, health in-
surance for, 35-6.

Cologne, medical aid to mem-
bers of family, 90.

Colorado, compensation act, 2;
maximum benefits under,
103; state insurance, 179.

Commercial insurance, objec-
tions to, 12.

Competition between insur-
ance carriers, 140.

Compulsion, 18-28; advan-
tages of, 21-4; attacks
upon, 23-8.

Compulsory health insurance,
19, 20, 21.

Conciliation committees for
medical aid, 299, 302.

Connecticut, compensation act,
2.

Constitutionality of health in-
surance, 275-94.

Contract practice, 295.

Contributions, amount of, 214.

Convalescence benefits, 148,
151.

Cooley, Judge, quoted, 276.

Cost of insurance, distribution
of, 153-67, 168-77; the-
ories underlying, 174-6;
under voluntary insur-
ance, 155.

Cost of insurance, estimate of,
260-74; shifting and in-
cidence, 165-7; variations
due to ocupation, 220.

Cost of living, 14.

Davis, M. M., 9.

Dawson, M. M., 175-6.

Democratic administration,
necessity for, 205-7.

Denmark, health insurance in,
18, 20; dental care, 77;
duration of benefits, 104;
extent of insurance, 23,
29; funeral benefits, 140;
hospital facilities, 84; ma-
ternity benefit, 123; med-
ical benefit, 69; medical
benefit to family, 90;
medical organization, 243;
medical supplies, 80;
money benefit, 98-9; or-
ganization of health in-
surance, 182-3; relation to
invalidity, 60; waiting
period, 107; state contri-
bution, 155-6.
Old age pensions, 163.

Dental benefits, 77, 148.

Dental diseases among poor,
79.

Dental parlors, 29.
Dentistry, development of, in

U. S., 78.
Diets, special, grant of, 149.
Disability, total, benefits for,

59.

"Disablement" benefits in
Great Britain, 60, 105.

Dispensary, problem, 253-8,
306-8; advantages of,
235-6, 258; charges
against, 254-5.

"Doctors' strikes" In Ger-
many, 247.

Domestic servants, health in-
surance for, 32, 33.

Dresden, medical aid to fam-
ily in, 90; provision for
specialists, 305.

Druggists' panels, 252.

Drugs, furnishing of, 80; or-
ganization of supply, 250.

Dublin, Dr. L. I, 45, 238.

Durand, E. D., 16.

Duration of benefits, 104-6.

Dusseldorf, medical aid to
family in, 90.

Economic World, 11, 12, 27,
190.

Economy of administration,
204, 206-7.

Efficiency under democratic
administration, 204, 206.

Emerson, Dr. Haven, 9.

Employees' contribution, ar-
guments for, 161-5.

Employers' contribution un-
der compulsory insurance,
155-6; arguments for,
157-60; to mutual aid so-
cieties, 200; under volun-
tary insurance, 160.

Employers, gain from health
insurance, 158; share in
administration, 207-8.

Essen, medical aid to family,
90.

Establishment funds, 198.

Exceptions from compulsory
insurance, 36.

Excessive hazards, charges
for, 227.

Experience rating in com-
pensation insurance, 228.

Extent of insurance, 29-42;
stimulated by democratic
management, 205.

External causes, mortality
from, 45-6.

Eye-glasses, furnished In
Leipzig, 82.

Fabian Research Department,
73, 77, 82, 86, 164-5.

Family, medical aid to, 89-93;
optional extension of
benefits to, 151; voluntary
insurance for, 40.

Family physicians, 235.

Feminism and maternity in-
surance, 135.

Fibel, L. H., 191, 193.

Financial organization, 214-
31.

France, compulsory health in-
surance, 20; voluntary in-
surance, 20; number in-
sured, 22.
Maternity benefits, 117, 127,
133.

Old age pensions, 163.

Frankel, Lee K., 116, 117, 238.

Frankfort, medical aid to
family, 90.

Frankfurter, Felix, 289.

Free choice of druggists, 251;
of insurance carriers,
185-9; of physicians,
241-2, 298.

Freund, Prof., 280, 282, 294.

Funeral benefit, 140-4; cost
of, 265; optional increase
of, 149; under compensa-
tion, 143.

General practitioner, 235.
Germany, health insurance,
11, 18, 20.

Cost, 260-1; cost, distribu-
tion of, 168; contribution,
rates of, 260.

Drugs and supplies, 80-1;
drugs, organization of
supply, 251.

Dental care, 78.

Employers' contribution,
156.

Germany, extent of insur-
ance, 30-1.

Funeral benefits, 141.

Hospital benefits, 84.

Industrial accidents under,
50, 51, 158.

Insurance organization,
183-4.

Maternity benefits, 123-4 j
duration of benefits, 127;
under war conditions, 130.

Medical aid, 69, 71; con-
flicts over, 247; organiza-
tion of, 243, 310.

Money benefit, 99-100; du-
ration of, 105.

Number insured, 22.

Optional benefits, 145, 148-
50.

Relation to invalidity, 59.
Waiting period, 107.
Gibbon, I. G., 80, 247-8.
Government employees, insur-
ance for, 32, 35.
Gray, John, 15.
Great Britain, compulsory
health insurance, 11, 18,
20, 32.

Cost, distribution of, 168;

in low paid labor, 171-2.
Drugs and supplies, 80, 81.
Funeral benefits, 141.
Industrial accidents under,

51.

Insurance organization,
185-6.

Invalidity under, 60.
Maternity, benefits, 123-4;
medical aid in, 125.

Medical benefits, 69, 72;
criticism of, 232; organ-
ization of, 243-4.

Money benefit, 99; waiting
period, 107-8.

Old age pensions, 163.

Optional health insurance

benefits, 147-8, 150.
Physicians, conflicts with, 247.

Maternity, sanatorium bene-
fits, 85, 253.
State contributions, 156.
Unemployment insurance, 5.
Voluntary insurance, 21.
Group wages, 99.

Hamburg, convalescent homes,
85.

Hanover, medical aid to
family, 90.

Hawaii, compensation act, 54;
scale of benefits, 101.

Health and Accident Under-
writers' Conference, 91.

Holland, see Netherlands.

Holidays, benefits for, 148.

Holmes, Justice, quoted, 279.

Home workers, insurance for,
32, 34.

Honorary members under vol-
untary insurance, 155.

Hospital care, 84, 306-8; ef-
fect upon money benefit,
112-5; organization of,
252; optional extension,
149.

Hospital facilities, need of,
87; in Great Britain, 86.

Hungary, health insurance,
11, 18, 20; cost of, 168;
employers' contribution,
156; extent of insurance,
31; industrial accidents
under, 50, 158; maternity
benefit, 123-4; money
benefit, duration, 105;
money benefit, scale, 100.

Illegitimacy, statistics of, 120.

Income standards for insur-
ance, 38.

Indiana, compensation act,
benefit scale, 101.

Industrial accidents, 6.

Industrial commissions, 211-3.

Industrial Workers of the
World, 5.

Industry, charge upon, for
health insurance, 157; ef-
fect of, upon cost, 215;
responsibility of, for sick-
ness, 157-8.

"Injury," meaning of, in
compensation acts, 56,
290.

Institutional treatment, or-
ganization of, 252.

Insurance, definition of, 10;
organization of, 178-203.

International Ladies' Garment
Makers' Union, 139.

International Socialist Con-
gress, 116.

Invalidity, and sickness, 59-
60, 104-6; and old age,
59; insurance, 58-66; op-
tional benefits for, 148.

Iowa, compensation act, med-
ical aid, 54.

Ireland, medical aid, 69.

Isolated member, problem of,
187.

Italy, compulsory health in-
surance, 20-1; mater-
nity insurance, 117, 127;
voluntary insurance, 22.

Kansas, compensation act, 54;
maximum benefits under,
103.

Kelley, Florence, 132.
Kentucky, compensation act, 2.
Kiel, medical aid to family,
90.

Kollontai, A., 116, 119.

Lambert, Dr. A., 93, 249; on

organization of medical

aid, 295-311.
Lauck, W. J., 16.
Leipzig Local Sick Insurance

Fund, 184; expenditures,

267.

Drugs, furnished by, 81-2.
Medical aid given, amount

of, 269-70; cost of, 267;
to family, 90; organiza-
tion of, 299-301; by spe-
cialists, 305; remunera-
tion of physicians, 249.

Leipzig Local Sick Insurance
Fund, statistics, of acci-
dents, 44; of sickness,
106, 107, 263.
Sanatoria, 85.

Level premiums, 62.

Life insurance for workmen,
142-4.

Limitation of patients on
panels, 244.

Local insurance funds, 184,196.

Lodge practice, 296.

Loss ratio in private health
insurance, 193.

Louisiana, compensation act,
2; medical aid under, 54.

Low-paid labor, contributions
from, 170-2.

Luxemburg, compulsory health
insurance, 11, 20; mater-
nity benefits, 123; money
benefit, 100.

Maine, compensation act, med-
ical aid under, 54.

Mainz,medical aid to family, 90.

Malingering, 205.

Manchester, medical aid, 298.

Manchester Unity experience,
263.

Married women at work, 122;
maternity benefits for,
120; effect of maternity
insurance upon, 132; U.
S. statistics, 133-4.

Maryland, compensation act,
2; state insurance, 179.

Massachusetts, compensation
act, 2; benefit scale, 101;
compulsory insurance,
179; "injury," meaning
of, 290; occupational dis-
eases under, 57.

Massachusetts, health insur-
ance, bill, 132; cost of,
271-*.

Old age pension report, 3.

Maternity, 122.

Maternity benefits, 116-39;
cost, 264-5; duration of,
127; functions of, 118;
opposition to, 131-8; med-
ical aid under, 125-6; op-
tional increase of, 147;
relation to health insur-
ance, 129; standards of,
129-30.

Medical benefit, 67-93; condi-
tions of, 88; cost of, 248,
266-70; extent of, 70; ex-
tension to family, 89-93;
minimum requirements in
standard act, 73-4; op-
tional extension, 151; or-
ganization, 232-60, 295-
311; remuneration for,
246; specialized, 76; un-
der workmen's compensa-
tion, 54, 67, 236.

Medical committees, 299.

Medical disputes, 303.

Medical Economist, 250.

Medical practice, conditions
of, 233; among poor, 235;
in dispensaries, 256-7.

Medical profession, control
of, 300-2; economic inter-
ests of, 245; efficiency of,
304; incomes of, 240, 246;
remuneration in, 309;
tendency to overcrowding,
240.

Medical service, efficiency of,
304.

Metropolitan Life Insurance
Co., 45, 46, 238.

Michigan, state insurance, 179.

Mills bill, 92-3, 113-4; cost of,
261-2, 271-4; maternity
insurance, 132, 138; med-
ical organization, 250.

Mittelstandsbewegung, 39.
Minimum benefits, 112.
Minimum wage, 6, 59.
Minnesota, compensation act,
2.

Money benefit, 94-115; cost of,
264-5; duration, 104-6;
while in hospital, 112-5,
148-9; maximum limit,
103-4; minimum, 102; op-
tional increase of, 147-51;
sliding scale suggested,
103; under union benefit
funds, 95-6; uniform
scales, 97.

Monitor, 197.

Montana, compensation act,

medical aid, 54.
Mortality, among children,

128; from childbirth, 126.
Motherhood insurance, 118-9.
Mothers' pensions, 4.
Mudgett, B. D., 63.
Munich, sanatoria, 85.
Mutual aid funds in Germany,

184-6.

Mutual benefit societies as
carriers, 199-200.

Mutual insurance companies,
status under health insur-
ance, 194-5.

National Convention of In-
surance Commissioners,
192.

Nearing, Scott, 12-13.

Netherlands, compulsory health
insurance, 11, 20; em-
ployers do not contribute,
156; insurance organiza-
tion, 189; medical aid not
given, 69; money benefit,
100.

Nevada, compensation act, 54.
New Hampshire, compensa-
tion act, 54.

New Jersey, compensation
act, 2, 100-1; medical aid,
54.

Health insurance bill, 7,132.

Newman, Pauline, 139.

New Review, 16.

New Statesman, 75, 77, 141-2,
165, 187, 219.

New York, compensation act,
benefits under, 101; in-
surance organization, 27;
state insurance, 179.
Health insurance bill, 7,
132; see also Mills bill.

New York Association for
Improving the Condition
of the Poor, 14.

New York Board of Trade
and Transportation, 261-2.

New York Call, 139.

New York Constitution in re-
lation to health insurance,
290-4.

New York Court of Appeals,
279.

New Zealand, old age pen-
sions, 163.

Non-contributory insurance,
163; disadvantages of,
164.

Norway, compulsory health
insurance, 18, 20; extent
of, 31; insurance organ-
ization, 189; maternity
benefits, 123-4; money
benefits, duration, 105;
scale of, 100; state con-
tribution, 156.

Nursing as an optional bene-
fit, 149.

Occupation, effect upon cost,
215; upon rates, 226.

Occupational diseases, 55-7.

Ohio, compensation act, 2,
27-8; scale of benefits,
101.

Oklahoma, compensation act,
2; medical aid under, 54.

Old age pensions, 3-5, 65, 148.

One-day-rest-in-seven law, 282.

Optional benefits, 145-52.

Oregon, state insurance in,
179.

Out-patient clinics, see Dis-
pensaries.

Osier, Professor, 78.

Overinsurance, dangers of, 49,
201-2.

Panama Canal, organization
of medical aid, 238.

Panel system, 298.

Pennsylvania, compensation
act, 2; medical aid, 54;
state insurance, 179.

Physician, day's work of, 239;
income of, 237; propor-
tion to population, 239;
remuneration of, in dis-
pensaries, 257. See Med-
ical Profession.

Police power of state, 281-3.

Post office contributors in
Great Britain, 188.

Power to enact health laws,
278.

Presumption of constitution-
ality, 276-8.

Prevention of disease, 68.

Preventive effect of employ-
ers' contribution, 159; of
money benefit, 95; of
democratic administra-
tion, 205.

Preventive work of private in-
surance companies, 194.

Private insurance companies,
as carriers of health in-
surance, 190.

Private insurance in U. S.,
experience under, 191-3.

Private practice in medicine,
233.

Profit in social insurance,
191.

Prudential Insurance Co.,

187, 189, 220.
Public health, education in,

Ml.

Rates for health insurance,
difficulty of computing,
217; objections to legal
rates, 219; uniform for
age groups, 222; legal
limitations in Germany,
230.

Refunds of contributions,
148.

Reserve funds, 229.
Reserve values, 225.
Rhode Island, compensation
act, 54.

Rochester sickness survey,
238.

Roumania, compulsory health
insurance, 11, 20; contri-
butions under, 155; indus-
trial accidents under, 50;
insurance organization,
189; maternity benefits,
123-4; money benefits, du-
ration of, 105; scale of
benefit. 100.

Rubinow, I. M., 9, 14, 15, 46,
274.

Russia, compulsory health in-
surance, 11, 18, 20; indus-
trial accidents under, 50;
insurance organization,
189; maternity benefits,
123, 127; medical aid, 70,
237; money benefit, 100,
105.

Salaried physicians in Ger-
many, 297.

Sanatoria, 84-5.

Sanatorium benefit, 253.

Schedule rating in compensa-
tion, 228.

Scope of health insurance, 43-
66.

Seager, H. R., 9.

Self insurance, in compensa-
tion, 179.

Servia, compulsory health in-
surance, 11, 20; employ-
ers' contribution, 156; in-
surance organization, 189;
maternity benefit, 123-4;
money benefit, scale of,
100.

Shifting and incidence of in-
surance, 23-1, 165-6.

Sickness as cause of poverty,
6.

Social insurance, 1, 4, 181;
First American Confer-
ence on, 3; International
Congress on, 3.

Social Insurance Bureau of
American Medical Asso-
ciation, 246.

Social Insurance Commission
of California, 3.

Social Insurance Committee
of American Association
for Labor Legislation, 7,
100-1, 131, 173, 295.

Socialist Party, 4; on work-
men's contribution to in-
surance, 162.

Socialists' attitude on mater-
nity insurance, 138-9.

Spain, number insured against
sickness, 22.

Specialists in, German sick-
ness insurance, 305.

Standard Accident Table, 64.

Standardization of insurance,
24.

State contribution, 156; ar-
guments for, 160-1.

State control of administra-
tion, 209-10.

State insurance, 181; Euro-
pean experience, 195.

State medicine, 237; objec-
tions to, 238.

State responsibility for sick-
ness, 160-1.

Strassburg, medical aid to
family, 90.

Streightoff, F. H., 13.

Sunday, benefits for, 149.

Superannuation, aid to, op-
tional, 148.

Supplies, medical and sur-
gical, 80.

Surgical aid, 75.

Survey, social insurance de-
partment in, 3.

Suspended insurance, 89.

Sweden, health insurance, 20.

Switzerland, voluntary health
insurance, 18, 20-1, 29.

Sydenstricker, E., 9, 16, 196.

Texas, compensation act, 2;
compulsory insurance,
179; maximum benefits,
103; medical aid, 54;
scale of benefits, 101.

Thayer, quoted, 278.

Thompson, T. L., 11, 12, 27,
190.

Total permanent disability

clause, 63.
Trade funds as carriers, 198.
Trade union sick benefits, 96.
Travelers' Insurance Co., 47,

63.

Unemployment insurance, 4,
5.

United Kingdom, number in-
sured against sickness, 22.

U. S. Commissioner of La-
bor, 96.

U. S. Constitution, 275.

U. S. employees' compensa-
tion act, 1, 54.

U. S. Public Health Service,
9, 196, 238.

Unmarried mothers, mater-
nity benefit for, 120;
problem of, 136-7.

Vermont, compensation act,
medical aid under, 54.

Visitation fee, 298.

Voluntary extension of bene-
fits under private insur-
ance, 194.

Voluntary health insurance,
18-19, 39-40; distribution
of cost, 155; money bene-
fits under, 98.

Wage groups, advantages of,
224.

Wages, in U. S., 5-16, 12, 13;
real, trend of, 274.

Waiting period, optional re-
duction, 147, 149; for
medical aid, 88; for
money benefits, 106, 111;
under compensation, 53;
under voluntary insur-
ance, 108.

Walling, W. E., 16.

Warren, B. S., 9, 16, 196.

Washington, compensation
act, 27, 28, 54; no med-
ical aid, 67; state insur-
ance, 179.

Webb, S., 75, 162, 164, 170,
187.

Weld, D. H. L., 16.

West Virginia, compensation
act, 2; insurance compul-
sory, 179; state subsi-
dized insurance, 179.

Wisconsin, compensation act,
2; scale of benefits, 101;
uniformity, 8.
Old age pensions, report on,
4.

Workmen's compensation in
U. S., 1, 2, 3, 48-55; com-
pulsory insurance, 27, 28;
funeral benefit, 133; in-
surance under, 178-80;
medical aid under, esti-
mate, 308.

Workmen's contribution,
amount computed, 174;
sliding scale for, 172-3.

Women's wage labor, cause
for, 136.

Wyoming, workmen's com-
pensation act, 54; no med-
ical aid, 67; state insur-
ance under, 179.

Zander institutes, 82.
Zxcangsversicherung, 183.

IN THE HOME UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

Admirably clear."—New York

THE SOCIALIST MOVE-
MENT

By J. Ramsay Macdonald, Chair-
man of the British Labor Party.
"The latest authoritative exposi-
tion of Socialism."—San rran-

CXSCO Argonaut.
LIBERALISM

By Prof. L. T. Hobhouse, au-
thor of Democracy and Reaction.
A masterly philosophical and his-
torical review of the subject.
THE STOCK EXCHANGE
By F. W. Hirst, Editor of the
London Economist. Reveals to
the non-financial mind the facts
about investment, speculation,
and the other terms which the
title suggests.
THE EVOLUTION OF IN-
DUSTRY
By D. H. Macgregor, Professor
of Political Economy, University
of Leeds. An outline of the re-
cent changes that have given us
the present conditions of t the
working, classes and the princi-
ples involved.
ELEMENTS OF ENGLISH
LAW

By W. M. Geldart, Vinerian Professor of English Law, Oxford. A simple statement
of the basic principles of the English legal system on which that of the United
States is based. THE SCHOOLi An Introduction to the Study of Education By J. J.
Findlav, Professor of Education, Manchester. Presents the history, the
psychological basis, and the theory of the school with a rare power of summary
and suggestion. IRISH NATIONALITY By Mrs. J. R. Green. A brilliant account of
the genius and mission of the Irish people. "An entrancing work, and I would
advise every one with a drop of Irish blood in his veins or a vein of Irish
sympathy in his heart to read it."—New York Times' Review.

THE NEGRO

By W. E. Burghart DuBois,
author of Souls of Black Folks,
etc. A history of the black man
in Africa, America or wherever
else his presence has been or is
important.

CO - PARTNERSHIP AND
PROFIT SHARING
By Aneurin Williahs. Ex-
plains the various types of co-
partnership or profit-sharing, or
both, and gives details of the
arrangements now in force in
many of the great industries.

POLITICAL THOUGHTS
From Herbert Spencer
to the Present Day
By Ernest Barker, M.A., Ox-
ford.

UNEMPLOYMENT

By A. C. Pigou, M.A., Professor of Political Economy at Cambridge. The meaning,
measurement, distribution, and effects of unemployment, its relation to wages,
trade fluctuations, and disputes, and some proposals of remedy or relief.
COMMON-SENSE IN LAW By Prop. Paul ViNOgradoff, D.C.L., LL.D. Social and Legal
Rules—Legal Rights and Duties —Facts and Acts in
Law—Legislation—Custom—Judicial Precedents^—Equity—The Law of Nature.

ELEMENTS OF POLITICAL
ECONOMY

By S. J. Chapman, Professor of

Political Economy and Dean of

Faculty of Commerce and Administration, University of Manchester. A clear
statement of

the theory of the subj ect for

non-expert readers. THE SCIENCE OF WEALTH

By T. A. Hobson, author of

Problems of Poverty. A study

of the structure and working of

the modern business world. PARLIAMENT. Its History* Constitution* and Practice

By Sir Courtenay P. Ilbert,

Clerk of the House of Commons.

"Can be praised without reserve. Cloth bound, good paper, clear type, 256 pages
per volume, bibliographies, indices, also maps or illustrations where needed.
Each complete and sold, separately.

[merged small][ocr errors][merged small]

HENRY HOLT AND COMPANY Publishers Wis) New York

[graphic]
[graphic]

IN THE HOME UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

Admirably clear."—New York

THE SOCIALIST MOVE-
MENT

By J. Ramsay Macdonald, Chair-
man of the British Labor Party.
"The latest authoritative exposi-
tion of Socialism."—San rran-

CXSCO Argonaut.
LIBERALISM

By Prof. L. T. Hobhouse, au-
thor of Democracy and Reaction.
A masterly philosophical and his-
torical review of the subject.
THE STOCK EXCHANGE
By F. W. Hirst, Editor of the
London Economist. Reveals to
the non-financial mind the facts
about investment, speculation,
and the other terms which the
title suggests.
THE EVOLUTION OF IN-
DUSTRY
By D. H. Macgregor, Professor
of Political Economy, University
of Leeds. An outline of the re-
cent changes that have given us
the present conditions of t the
working, classes and the princi-
ples involved.
ELEMENTS OF ENGLISH
LAW

By W. M. Geldart, Vinerian Professor of English Law, Oxford. A simple statement
of the basic principles of the English legal system on which that of the United
States is based. THE SCHOOLi An Introduction to the Study of Education By J. J.
Findlav, Professor of Education, Manchester. Presents the history, the
psychological basis, and the theory of the school with a rare power of summary
and suggestion. IRISH NATIONALITY By Mrs. J. R. Green. A brilliant account of
the genius and mission of the Irish people. "An entrancing work, and I would
advise every one with a drop of Irish blood in his veins or a vein of Irish
sympathy in his heart to read it."—New York Times' Review.

THE NEGRO

By W. E. Burghart DuBois,
author of Souls of Black Folks,
etc. A history of the black man
in Africa, America or wherever
else his presence has been or is
important.

CO - PARTNERSHIP AND
PROFIT SHARING
By Aneurin Williahs. Ex-
plains the various types of co-
partnership or profit-sharing, or
both, and gives details of the
arrangements now in force in
many of the great industries.

POLITICAL THOUGHTS
From Herbert Spencer
to the Present Day
By Ernest Barker, M.A., Ox-
ford.

UNEMPLOYMENT

By A. C. Pigou, M.A., Professor of Political Economy at Cambridge. The meaning,
measurement, distribution, and effects of unemployment, its relation to wages,
trade fluctuations, and disputes, and some proposals of remedy or relief.
COMMON-SENSE IN LAW By Prop. Paul ViNOgradoff, D.C.L., LL.D. Social and Legal
Rules—Legal Rights and Duties —Facts and Acts in
Law—Legislation—Custom—Judicial Precedents^—Equity—The Law of Nature.

ELEMENTS OF POLITICAL
ECONOMY

By S. J. Chapman, Professor of

Political Economy and Dean of

Faculty of Commerce and Administration, University of Manchester. A clear
statement of

the theory of the subj ect for

non-expert readers. THE SCIENCE OF WEALTH

By T. A. Hobson, author of

Problems of Poverty. A study

of the structure and working of

the modern business world. PARLIAMENT. Its History* Constitution* and Practice

By Sir Courtenay P. Ilbert,

Clerk of the House of Commons.

"Can be praised without reserve. Cloth bound, good paper, clear type, 256 pages
per volume, bibliographies, indices, also maps or illustrations where needed.
Each complete and sold, separately.

[merged small][ocr errors][merged small]

HENRY HOLT AND COMPANY Publishers Wis) New York

[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[merged small][graphic][merged small][merged small][graphic]
[ocr errors]
