[graphic]
[merged small][merged small][graphic]

THE WAY TO HAPPINESS

n

V

I

[merged small][merged small][graphic]

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

LONDON: MACMILLAN & CO., Ltd.

1907

All righto re»erved

[ocr errors]

Copyright, 1907,
By THE MACMILLAN COMPANY.

Set up and electrotyped. Published January, 1907.

[ocr errors]

THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED
TO

EVERY FRIEND
WHO ALONG THE WAY HAS ADDED
"SUNSHINE TO DAYLIGHT"

CONTENTS

nam

A Foreword To Those Who Seek The Wat 1

The Call To The Way

The Search 11

The Way Of The Stoic

Happiness by Self-control .... 81

The Way Of The Epicurean

Happiness by Pleasure .... 49

The Way Of The Altruist

One's Self and the Other .... 65

The Way Of Worship

Happiness by Inspiration .... 85

The Way To The Holy Place

Happiness at Home . . . . . 105

The Way Of Freedom

Happiness by Liberty .

The Wat To The Heights

The Vision and the Dream .

The End Of The Wat

Blessedness and Peace

A FOREWORD TO THOSE WHO SEEK THE WAY

[graphic]

A FOREWORD TO THOSE WHO SEEK THE WAY

IN the Diary of Crabbe Robinson there is the record of a conversation with
Wordsworth about Coleridge. The Poet had said that Coleridge's mind was "of
greater power than any he had ever known." He then added, "No one has
completely understood me, not even Coleridge; he is not happy enough!" This is
a complete biography!

It is evident that the wisest and simplest poet of England from Milton's day to
his own held very firmly the conviction that Happiness is necessary to the
complete integrity and grasp of the human mind. If this be so, then Happiness,
which we so often treat as an accident of circumstance or an element of
temperament, must be far above all accidents, and takes its place among the
absolute necessities of our earthly life. To think of Happiness as a duty seems
strange to those who have always supposed that Happiness was necessarily allied
to good fortune or good health.

But it is as much above these as the soul is greater than its surroundings,
either of body or place in life. If to have a good understanding of such poetry
as Wordsworth wrote is impossible to an unhappy man, then it becomes an
obligation to cleanse the lenses of vision of all dimness, and to see clearly
with glad eyes what the world has to show. Power of mind is not enough to
sustain our Wfeary thoughts; we must have lift of soul; the wings of thought
must not droop, but spread, to give buoyant flight to the high thoughts upon
which our very power and effectiveness in life depend. Of course there are many
who will not take this view of the dependence of the mind upon its climate.
Those who have always associated wisdom with gravity will find it difficult to
believe that the highest wisdom is reached through delight. And yet, what is
the type of the Kingdom of Heaven? It is the gladdest of all God's creatures:
"a little child" — "Whoso shall not receive the Kingdom of Heaven as a little
child shall in no wise enter therein!" So it would seem to be true that the way
to Happiness, and the way into the Kingdom of Heaven, must he close to each
other in the fields of mind. And it seems not without significance that the
very first chapter in the Story of Creation should close with the statement
that "God saw everything that He had made, and behold, it was very good." Is it
possible that we may have missed the intention of the Creator that we should
find this a good world in which we dare be glad? It seems to be reasonable to
suppose that if the result in an ordered world be Beauty, the result in an
ordered life must be Joy. In spite of all the sorrow, cruelty, and sin, of
human life, men hold to life with both hands. There must be, under all its
dreadful aspects, some promise of

"One far-off divine event,
To which the whole creation moves."

I shall not argue this point, nor debate it with any one who feels compelled to
a life of sadness or gloom. I shall, for answer, only transcribe here one of
Henry van Dyke's later poems of "God's Good Outdoors." It seems to me to be the
normal attitude to a world which "is very good"!

"Thou who hast set Thy dwelling fair

With flowers beneath, above with starry lights, And set Thy altars everywhere,
—

On mountain heights,
In woodland valleys dim with many a dream,

In valleys bright with springs,
And in the curving capes of every stream —
Thou who hast taken to Thyself the wings

Of morning, to abide
Upon the secret places of the sea,
And on far islands, where the tide
Visits the beauty of untrodden shores,
Waiting for worshippers to come to Thee

In Thy great out-of-doors!
To Thee I turn, to Thee I make my prayer,
God of the Open Air!

"From the prison of anxious thoughts that greed

has builded, From the fetters that envy has wrought, and

pride has gilded, From the noise of the crowded ways and the

fierce confusion, From the folly that wastes its days in a world

of illusion,

(Ah, but the life is lost that frets and languishes there)

I would escape and be free in the joy of the
Open Air!

"So let me keep
These treasures of the humble heart
In true possession, owning them by love;
And when at last I can no longer move
Among them freely, but must part
From the green fields and from the water clear,

Let me not creep
Into some darkened room and hide
From all that makes the world so bright and
dear;

But throw the windows wide

To welcome in the light;
And while I clasp a well-beloved hand,

Let me once more have sight
Of the deep sky and the far-smiling land, —

Then gently fall on sleep, And breathe my body back to Nature's care, My spirit
out to Thee, God of the Open Air!"

Of course you may say that the poet who wrote this is also a preacher and
teacher bound to believe in goodness; that he is a fisherman, and a hunter, who
delights to dwell in the woods and walk by mountain streams; a man well-placed
in life and congenially employed as a well, strong

THE CALL TO THE WAY

THE SEARCH

THAT " the greatest happiness to the greatest number is the foundation of all
morals and legislation," is the corner-stone of that philosophy which boasts
the title Utilitarian.

I am not concerned as to whether this is true, but obviously the proposition is
debatable. This time is not in need of more critics, but of more singers of the
beautiful life, of singers who shall refuse to speak of themselves as "idle
singers of an empty day." There is a call to happiness in the air, and men who
have wearied the heavens with their prayers, seeking relief from their woes,
are now looking far afield for a gladness that they feel belongs of right to
their earthly life. These hear the Call of the Way to Happiness; these are
adventurous Spirits in search, not of a Holy Grail, but the Joy of Life.

What do we mean by the search for happiness? We mean pretty much everything
referable to human instinct and human effort. It is a law of nature that its
unimpeded, undiverted, unsophisticated functions are functions of delight. I
cannot tell you with any positiveness whether the singing of the birds in June
is the product of joy or not, but it sounds like it. A speculative Frenchman
says a bird sings because it is in pain, but the poets do not agree with him. I
suspect that when the mother bird is brooding her eggs and her mate sings from
the neighboring bough, it is a part of that general echo of the declaration
that "God saw all things He had made, and behold they were very good"! That is
the view the poets and idealists hold, and the ministers of religion who are
not too much occupied to go outdoors are apt to believe it to be true.

All nature seems keyed to happiness. Think for a moment what would happen, in
the general impression of the world, if, instead of the foliage and fields
being green, they had all been scarlet, or yellow, or light pink. We should
have accustomed ourselves to it, but we should have had different organs of
vision, as people who live now in desert or arctic expanses, or dwellers in
underground caverns, get a different adjustment of vision toward the things
that surround them. If, in spite of the whole teaching of nature that we should
be glad, it is still to many a sad world, that is not the fault of the natural
world. Of course you immediately quote the earthquake in Calabria — but people
should not build their homes where earthquakes are in the habit of breaking
through. Or you quote the volcanic upheaval of Mont Pelee — but they planted
their vines on the side of the crater because the ash of previous eruptions was
good for the vines; they did as people do in the commercial world, took the
largest risk for the sake of the largest interest. Even the dreadful tragedy in
California had a scientific announcement long before it occurred. Nature has
nothing to do with those results. Nature provides that a falling body shall
fall downwards, and that its impact with the point of contact shall be painful;
but nature in all its moods that are familiar to us is keyed to joy. Who shall
come back after a summer of delight, and not say that it is good to be out of
doors? Who does not feel like quoting with Stevenson: "There is no music like
the music of a little river, and though one should be grateful for friends and
home, there is no place so homelike as God's good outdoors"? Who shall stand,
in the radiant autumn, after "the effulgent summer," and not say that the
aspect of nature, taken in the large with perspective enough, is an aspect of
delight? If proof is needed, think how reluctantly you came home to the city,
how you hated to come into the confines of narrow walls, you who had had the
horizon for your bound.

And all the instincts of human life are native to joy. If you take the natural
desires, from the lowest appetites to the highest intellectual aspirations,
they are all keyed to joy. Hunger is what keeps the world alive, and God has
ordained that it shall be accompanied by taste, and from this elemental passion
to keep alive in terms of delight by the low joys of the palate all the way to
the intellectual processes of life, they invite to delight as the simple reward
of their exercise. Here is the explanation why some people, while not glad to
be poor, are content to be poor. Keats wrote the most beautiful ode the English
language possesses, the Ode on Melancholy, not because he was consumptive, or
miserably poor, or weak and hectic, but because these things put away from him
the possibility of the delight of marriage with Fanny Brawn. There are no finer
lines than these final lines of the Ode: —

"Ay, in the very temple of Delight

Veil'd Melancholy has her sovran shrine, Though seen of none save him whose
strenuous tongue

Can burst Joy's grape against his palate fine; His soul shall taste the sadness
of her might, And be among her cloudy trophies hung."

And yet you could not have bought Keats's joy of him for any price you could
have named. The mere exercise of the intellectual faculty is a delightful
thing, and you might run through the categories of charm, delight, and
happiness, and you would find that nature has provided that every desire is the
prophecy of its fulfilment, and the signal of supply. It is even true in those
great arctic wastes, where a fluttering pennant shows

against the colorless air and sky, that somebody has been that way and "cached"
under the ice a supply for the next explorer, who is expected to arrive. And
from that to the simplest risings of desire in the human mind, there is the
register that nature has deposited an equivalent for every note she has issued.
This is our ground for the search for happiness. It has penetrated our minds,
entered our powers, flooded our circulation, spoken to our strong nerves, that
we were meant to be happy; and that we are not wholly so.

Note how we seek to achieve this. The unconscious happiness of perfect health
is not given to many, and yet when it appears, what a delight it is to the
beholder. We even hide the fact that we do not feel quite well for fear we
shall be suspected of not being in perfect health. We would rather be the
constant herald of verve and joy and energy, than be suspected of being a
"creaking door upon the hinge." When you see a perfectly well child or youth,
or one of the modern contestants in the amphitheatre, a perfect animal, his
muscles moving under the silk of his skin, every motion indicating that his
weight has been eliminated, an acrobat who seems not to weigh a pound unless
his will weighs that much, you say that the mere fact of bodily health and
strength is a joy in itself. Or note with what energy and devotion we try to
recover our lost days. I suppose the vast majority of the human family to-day,
under the provisions of civilization's methods, are devising means to recover
their health.

Not only this, but the search for happiness involves the effort to find perfect
adjustment. I suppose, in a single phrase, much of the endeavor of the world
might be summed up as the effort to reduce the friction of life. It is true of
human life as of machinery; on every machine sit two sprites, Friction and
Rust; and Rust says to the machine, "If you stop, I will eat you up," and
Friction says, "If you keep going, I will wear you out!" and that is the
situation in which the human mechanism finds itself: it has either to be worn
out with friction in activity, or eaten up with rust in inertia, or else find a
lubricant to reduce the friction and quicken the paralysis of inactivity; and
this is what causes the search for happiness: it is the effort to secure a
self-lubricating human life. This is not a pretty figure, perhaps, but there is
more "mechanism in morals," to use the phrase of Oliver Wendell Holmes, than we
think. So the search for happiness is an effort to find a self-lubricating
machine that will keep going for the longest possible time with the best
possible results. We wish to live in a house where the colors are harmonious,
where the arrangement shall delight us, and even when our efforts seem more or
less absurd, they all tend in the same direction. Human life is comedy, and the
only thing that can keep it from being a tragedy is to have it comic to the
performer and not only to the looker-on. So we furnish our houses and
distribute ourselves in them, and order our wants and make the adjustment of
all our relations only for one purpose at bottom — that we may be happy. Take
for instance the very difficult matter in which the acme of happiness seems to
be, that of finding, not only a home, but a mate. The happy homes on that
ground are the homes that are naturally provided, where you shall not go out
and think too much about the kind of mate that is to be in the home. Crowned
heads do <, o^ THF

that, and are not happy. Marriages for state reasons, for family reasons, for
reasons of finance, for social reasons, they all belong to the artificial
protest against the search for happiness, which simply dictates that two
wholesome people, wholesomely adjusted to each other and life, shall grow up
together in a fife in which they shall divide their burdens and multiply their
joys; and, thank God, there are hundreds of thousands of people still doing
just this. So when people grow excited over the divorce question, I cannot join
the excitability, because nature, somehow or other, corrects its own mistakes,
sometimes with social disorder, and often with infinite personal pain, but the
fundamental law is that every human being is entitled to a happy life under
some condition or other, and the effort to provide by inflexible legislation
for human happiness never succeeded yet. Uniform legislation there may be, but
that we are not ready for, even in the mind of the wisest people, until we have
a uniform civilization that shall apply to South Dakota as well as to the
Imperial State of New York.

Take another aspect. Think of the boundless

patience of the world. For the most part, patience is not entertained upon
principle at all. There is a kind of patience that comes of weakish circulation
and slow motion, but that is rather lack of impressibility than patience — the
patience that was indicated by the Dean of St. Paul's when he saw the child
patting a tortoise on the back, and he said: "That does not please the tortoise
any more than if you were to pat the dome of St. Paul's with the idea that you
were pleasing the Dean." That is simply being impervious to impression. We
speak of " the patience of Job." We do not speak of it, however, after we have
read the book with any attention, because Job's utterances were the expressions
of the righteous man's dilemma, and not the utterances of an infinitely patient
man. Patience pays its tribute to the search for happiness in that we would
rather comply ten times over, than once have the friction of resistance — would
rather submit to conditions that seem to be the very sum of patience, with the
feeling that it is better to bear than to fight. Can you imagine why the
tenement-house population submitted, and still submit to some extent,

to their conditions, except as the consequence of an unorganized search for
happiness that does not know how to organize? This runs through all classes in
the world — an infinite compliance, a feeling that we will make shift to get on
if we can, but at least to secure some luminous margin to our dark days on
which to go out and sun ourselves where we may be let alone. It is part of the
search that we bear so much without complaint. We are afraid to lose an
opportunity that may have the seed in it of some future joy, so we grasp the
thorns in the hope that inside may be some seed of happiness to come.

Note now two circumstances that grow out of this general search. I make the
broad statement that nearly all that people are doing, seeking, wishing for,
nearly all these things, are aspects of the general search for happiness. We
have an abiding conviction that we are meant to be glad; we have a feeling that
what came in with a sob at the beginning of our lives ought to go out with a
smile. Every function we have, as I have said, from the lowest to the highest,
is in some way ordained to win its own reward; every desire is the signal of
nature that somewhere there is its supply. And then there appears this very
singular collateral law, alongside of the fact that every desire has its
promise of fulfilment, that it is a note issued by nature upon the common bank
of resource, the law that any function served for itself alone turns to pain. 
Think of it for a moment. I have used the simple illustration of the physical
force being supplied, by food, the stoking of the engine to keep the machinery
running. It is a marvellous thing, when you stop to think of it, that what is
so vulgar in the market is so splendid in the poet who ate what came from the
market; that subtle alchemy in the human system has turned by the process of
digestion into thought, emotion, expression, all this which was in the ground
or on the earth a week ago. That is a splendid transfiguration of forces. But,
let a human being devote himself to the delights of the table for themselves! ^
Let him live to eat instead of eating to live, and what results? I remember
what a shock my little boyhood had in that book upon which most good children
have been brought up, the story of Slovenly Peter whose appetite causes the
dismemberment of his system! What happens in adult age is that any human being
devoted to the pleasures of the palate becomes vulgar, then obese, then
dull-headed, then incapable of feeling, and finally is relegated to annals of
morbid pathology. That is one primary appetite which, followed for its own
sake, brings ruin. Take the legitimate appetite for mere pleasure. It is
incontrovertible that we have the right to be glad; the child, the kitten, the
puppy, the lamb, the bird, in the natural enjoyment of the normal functions,
cannot keep still for very gladness. Only sick children and little prigs keep
still. Healthy products of the normal life of the world are in motion with
delight. Vibration is a fundamental fact in nature. But let a human being elect
to be always in a state of exhilarant delight for its own sake and I need not
describe the result. Some one described a pessimist as "a man who had just left
an optimist." That is the result of intentional optimism, the determined
optimism of the man who has just learned that we have a right to be glad, and
is determined to be glad in a manner utterly unbecoming to the seriousness of
life. Every function, normal and rewarded in its essence, followed for itself
alone is its own revenge. What shall we do, then? I have already indicated what
nature does about it. She translates the common things, into things higher, by
a process of transfiguration. Why does a wheel run down hill? Because it is
trying to recover its centre of gravity. What are the conditions of society
that are continually perturbed? Simply society seeking its equilibrium; and the
law of human life is, first, that the search for happiness is normal, and
secondly, that intention to make the search an end in itself revenges itself by
loss of happiness.

"Man never is, but always to be blest," says Pope. The problem is to translate
the search for happiness into something that is other than happiness. The
normal instinct is to be translated into a principle of action. There are only
two fundamental instincts of life, self-preservation and the reproduction of
life. It is an instinct to be hungry. Why should I eat? Because food tastes
good? That goes a little way; but followed on its own lines, you get the
epicure, probably the lowest productive animal in the world. Why should I eat?
Because I have work to do. It is said that when the Divine Providence found the
prophet fasting in the wilderness, he was fed from on high, and then "he went
in the strength of that meat many days." It is said of the Master of the Art of
Living that when he had struggled with the temptations in the wilderness, he
was "an hungered," and that "angels ministered unto him"; and some such thing
has to be the offset of every appetite in life. I need not name them all, or
dilate upon them. If you belong to the discipleship of that Master of Life,
some angelic interposition must on the basis of the normal appetite superimpose
a divine use. That is the reason we cannot take much interest in a six days'
race on a track in Madison Square Garden, for instance. Nothing seems to come
of it. And that somewhat explains our feeling about war; to set a man up to be
shot at seems to be about the worst use you can make of him; and yet there is a
Cause which transfigures and raises every death into martyrdom, and every
danger into heroism. Everything then, followed for its own sake, becomes
abnormal and corrupt, and revenges itself

upon the seeker; but there is nothing so low but that, transfigured, it joins
the great forces that are making over the world into the Kingdom of God. It
seems to me that that was the lesson that was taught that blundering Apostle in
his trance on the housetop. Peter dreamed he saw a sheet let down from heaven,
with all manner of beasts, and he heard a voice saying to him that he should
"rise, kill, and eat." That is the normal voice that sounds through our
subconscious selves all the time. And he said, "No, not so, Lord, I have never
eaten anything common or unclean." There spoke, not the man, but the Jew,
intent not upon Life but upon its Ritual. Then he heard a voice saying, "What
God hath cleansed call not thou common"! and that voice too sounds in the ears
of every searcher after happiness in the world, the voice that drew Wordsworth
to the bank of the lake where he saw the daffodils, the voice that says that
the business of God is the cleansing of the lower things by leading them to
higher uses, taking life out of the morass and putting it on the peak, raising
the soiled and stained until the airs of heaven shall bathe it clean, "What God
hath cleansed call not thou common!" There is no appetite that in the divine
regard can be unclean, no desire but in His regard shall be normal. All shall
be used as in His presence, and under His eye; all life by this process of
evolution going on in the world, by which at last we shall make a human soul to
be the sum of life, shall find its apotheosis and culmination in the sight of
God, whose creatures we are. This was the meaning of Kipling's boast: —

"He shall paint the thing as he sees it
For the God of things as they are."

THE WAY OF THE STOIC

HAPPINESS BY SELF-CONTROL

THE WAY OF THE STOIC

HAPPINESS BY SELF-CONTROL

THIS is not an introductory history of philosophy. It is meant to have a
practical bearing, therefore it has not seemed worth while to deal at length,
except by way of inference and reference, with that great movement of
asceticism in pagan lands known as the school of the Cynics. The reason for
this omission is plain. There is no room nowadays for a Cynic. There is place
for the Stoic, and unhappily there is much place occupied by the Epicurean, but
there is no room for the Cynic. I do not know whether it is because we are not
enough open to asceticism and self-denial, not ready to go forth as the
messengers of Zeus, as the Cynics felt themselves to be; but in any case there
are few in this day, outside of the Roman Catholic church, who feel called upon
to "cry out and spare not" against the evils of the time. But the Stoic is
quite another style of man. He has an ancient lineage and modern
representatives. He had his beginning with Zeno in the fourth century before
Christ, and persisted through the phases of Greek thought before the Christian
era, but came to his finest expression in Epictetus in the first century of the
Christian era, and in Marcus Antoninus in the second. For while the apostles of
Jesus were going through Asia Minor, proclaiming the gospel, Epictetus was a
wandering missionary of stoicism, and the story of Antoninus is familiar, with
its unexplained stoicism, in spite of an infamous wife, and a brutal, cruel,
and dastardly son. Stoicism, in the briefest outline, commends itself to the
modern thought for certain elements in it not to be found either in the Cynic
or among followers of Epicurus.

In what, then, did the Stoic seek happiness, for his search was real? It was
for happiness by repression that he sought, not the repression of the ascetic,
but of the philosopher; the conviction that nothing mattered that was matter.
So much so, that President Hyde in his book " From Epicurus to Christ," in the
chapter on The Stoics, has expressed the thought that people who in this time
claim there is no such thing as a material world are the lineal descendants of
the Stoics. One differs from President Hyde in the belief that those phases of
modern menticulture in which a material world is at a discount and the mental
world at a premium constitute a basis of comparison; one cannot well compare an
air plant with an oak. We may inherit philosophic tendencies, but we cannot
therefore claim their lineage until we can show their philosophic results. The
Stoics thought that the material world was not the field of activity. The
mental rule was the rule to which everything was referred. Was it sickness? The
soul was not sick. Was it pain? The pain did not invade the soul. Said
Epictetus to his master, — he was, you know, a slave, — "If you keep turning
that instrument of torture, you will break my leg," and when another twist was
given and the bone broke, he said simply, "I told you so." Pain was foreign to
his mind. When driven out of Rome because he carried the badge of philosophy in
his long cloak and beard, he went, not because he would not have gone
clean-shaven, or naked, or in more fashionable garments, but because to alter
upon demand was to put pressure on his mind. Did a man's friend die? Hear what
Seneca says: "It is a low construction of providence that I shall more grieve
that my friend is taken away than rejoice that I have had him. What is past we
are sure of; nothing can make it not to have been." These three great names
succeeding the time of Christ — Seneca, Epictetus, and Marcus Aurelius — have
become a steadying influence to wavering and uncertain souls because they have
gathered in their search from afar, and set them to study at the heart of a
divine content. These are not "philosophers with their eyes at the ends of the
earth," and they are not easily invaded by anything from the outside. They put
into a single investment all the resources of life and call it the wealth of
the individual mind. Even death, to them, is a part of the expected things in
life—the only thing they are sure of, except the past, and therefore an event
for which they wait, going on with the work in hand, meanwhile. One of them
describes what he would like to be found doing when death should come, and he
enumerates, not any great heroic achievements, but just the ordinary activities
of daily life, and the sanctities of the commonplace. Death was an aspect of
nature to them. How did they arrive at this state of contentment that makes so
real an appeal to the modern mind? In the first place to them the mind was more
than the body. In modern phrase they believed that "Man has a body, but man is
a spirit." The whole spiritual world was vital and real to them; God was the
universal presence. One of them declares that the universe is personal and real
and conscious; it is the sum of things that he calls God. In that marvellous
hymn of Cleanthes to Zeus you have the highest expression of the poetic and
religious thought of stoicism, in which all tribute is paid to God, in which
the gods can be no better employed than in hymning to Zeus, the things that
have come from his universal power. The mind is the man; everything else is
external and accidental, riches a mere incident,—poverty no less an incident.
And when you realize how the statistics of economics show the small provision
that is necessary to hu

man life, you can understand how the Stoic, from his observation of men in that
democratic age which found expression first in Greece and then in Rome,
ascertained how little a man might live upon and how much beside would
therefore be incidental, accidental, purely fortuitous to the man. You find the
same thing in Emerson. He said, when they reproached him with having no
disciples, "It is my boast that I have taught for twenty-five years and have no
disciples; if they came to me, I should have to send them back to themselves."
This is the true Stoic doctrine; nothing matters but the essential man.
Everything else is incidental, occasional, and trifling. This is brought about
first by the bringing of consciousness to its highest expression, but also in
the adoration of the order of the world. Here you recognize the aspect of the
modern scientific mind. To the Stoic, God was not a sovereign of arbitrary
will: the gods themselves were under obedience to law; the Fates, those gray
sisters, cast their shadow upon the throne of Zeus; it was the Calvinism, if I
may use a modern term, of an ancient time, interpreting its confidence in the
beneficence of the world in terms of an inexorable order of the universal law.
It did not provide for miracle, for it provided for no mistakes; it did not
expect special interference, for it provided for no lapses of judgment in the
order of the world. Christianity, building upon miracle prophecy, special
interference, divine providence for special needs, found no support in the
systems of the time. Stoicism had, however, a theory of altruism, and I would
emphasize the word theory, because when one is keeping house so snugly as a
Stoic did, one is apt to forget to open the door for the passing guest. But
they had a theory of altruism. There was a theory of fraternity and brotherhood
in their speech, but it was first the man himself, and then the other man, and
the tendency of stoicism, in spite of its theory, was to harden the mind to the
aspects of the world. • That is true of all its variations. There was no moral
passion, as in the Jew. Such a cry as the Psalmist uttered: "As panteth the
hart for the water-brooks, so longeth my soul after Thee, oh God!" was unknown
to the Stoic mind. The Stoic was as calm when he addressed Zeus as

when discussing the State, and was just as likely to turn away from adoration
as to turn from administration of the State, saying that it was not well for
men to be diverted from the reflections of the human spirit. There was a
consequent hardening of the sensibilities. Its later expression appeared in the
Puritan of the English Commonwealth and in the time just preceding the Puritan,
when men read the scripture of the Old Testament especially, neglecting the
Beatitudes, and then shut the Book and went into battle with it lying over
their hearts. The Puritan is the lineal descendant of the Stoic; and most of
all in that cruelty of nature in which he is in singular contrast even on the
shores of the life of this country to the Pilgrim who was his next neighbor;
for between Plymouth Bay and Massachusetts Bay they were at times removed in
tone and temper more than by geographical miles — they were "apart by celestial
diameters." This is the defect of stoicism then, that whilst it has its assets
easily convertible, it has lost its account of what may be given away. That
this brought a certain happiness is unquestionable, and that it has in it the
elements of happiness for us is equally incontrovertible. I should say that as
I look abroad upon the Christian world as a whole, with its vacant stare into
the future for a good it is not accorded in the immediate present; with its
dependence upon special providence for individual needs; with its church
organizations that often show no adequate results for what they have cost and
for the time they have claimed from common life; as I look out upon the world
at large — not upon the individual church or Christian — I believe it would be
a vast advance in moral character to substitute the system of Marcus Aurelius
and Epictetus for the so-called Christianity of to-day. It would be a
substitution that would not be final, but that would for the time be extremely
wholesome, for it would lead to a renunciation that makes for regeneration, and
not to a renunciation that makes for self-indulgence. Let it not seem,
therefore, unjust that I say that modern Christianity, so-called, might find in
stoicism an ethical revival. It reaches the centre of a strong control
dominating the mind in the presence of the accidents of life; and the function
of happiness lies far along that way. What is it disturbs us? There are just
two things for which there are no methods of relief except their abolition, two
things that invade our happiness and destroy our peace: worry and sin. There is
no way of mending worry. It is a weed that goes to seed in the mind and raises
by selfplanting the crop of the next season. Weed it out. It is the only thing
to do. The remedy for worry is the abolition of worry. The nature must be
cleansed. But what of sin? The Stoic was not strong in his definition of sin.
But you and I know it is a real experience. We know perfectly well that any
explanation that looks like apology or excuse or extenuation may be heard with
a degree of interest by those anxious to show that we have not sinned, but when
all is said, we lift our faces and cry, "God be merciful to me a sinner!" and
all the vain explanations are cut like gauze by the stroke of the keen edge of
our distress. The Stoic reenforces life at these two points. As to worry, he
insists that where he is at all there he shall be altogether, as John Burroughs
said of Emerson; and the soul undivided shall be the unit of measure for every
occasion of

life. He does not fret himself away, as a moth frets a garment, as the worry of
life gnaws at the integrity of the mind. He goes out to each task knowing that
nothing matters that has not its area in the mind. I remember, as a boy,
hearing an old man, a minister of religion, talking with a young woman about
the frivolities of life, and as I listened, having no part, as a child, in the
conversation, I heard him say, with infinite tenderness and seriousness, "My
dear, you cannot prevent the birds from flying over your head, but you must not
let them make nests in your hair." It was a homely but true expression. Any
head can spare a hair or two in spring for a bird to weave into a nest
somewhere else, but let the bird fly over your head to that somewhere else.
That was a Stoic's attitude. Nothing matters until its area is within the mind,
and the worries of life are infinitely reduced by that consideration. And for
sin: they said, there is nothing that enters into the world except good-will;
this was the Stoic's fundamental doctrine. Good-will is everything. Think of
all the sins that in their horrid panorama may pass before the mind, and you
will end by saying, as Stanley Hall has said, "Selfishness is the sum of them
all!" Sins of sensuality, of hypocrisy, of brutality, of, avarice, — all the
vile category,— through its whole bloody, slimy, nasty length it is only
selfishness uncoiling itself, link by link, to gorge itself and feed its own
venom. All sins in their last analysis are referable to selfishness. There is
no good except good-will therefore, said the Stoic. It is unquestionable that
the path of happiness lies along this road. That it alone does not make all the
way we shall discover as we unfold our theme.

What, then, is the defect of the Stoic position? Its first defect is that it
makes no gradations in virtue or its favor. It says, "Whoso offendeth in one
point is guilty of all." It makes no difference between the stealing of a pin
and the stealing of a State; and, in theory, that is true; but it is not true
as to the constitution of society in its total effect. Stoicism has no
gradations of worth or unworth. There is virtue, and virtue is sufficient
happiness. No happiness need be applied for except by the virtuous man. He has
in his virtue all the happiness he needs. The other defect appears in contrast
with the Epicureans; it has no abandon to the beauty of the world. It speaks in
some vague way of the beauty of the world, but has no power to let itself go;
and, in this, happiness has laid upon it a most important limitation; for the
man who cannot let himself go, who boasts any philosophy that builds barriers
so strong that they cannot be broken down by the floods of emotion, or so high
that they cannot be overleaped in moments of exaltation, has cribbed and
cabined the world more than the world will long bear. And stoicism lapses at
length into the sensuousness of the Eastern Empire. These are the two defects
by which it failed; how nobly it planned to succeed, how splendidly it aspired,
let that great Hymn of Cleanthes, to which reference has been made, attest: —

Hymn To Jove1
By Cleanthes

Most glorious of all the Undying, many named,

girt round with awe! Jove, author of Nature, applying to all things the

rudder of law —

1 Translation by Thomas Davidson.

Hail! hail! for it justly rejoices the races whose life is a span

To lift unto Thee their voices — the Author and Framer of Man.

For we are Thy sons; Thou didst give us the symbols of speech at our birth,

Alone of the things that live, and mortal move upon earth.

Wherefore Thou shalt find me extolling, and ever

singing Thy praise; For, Thee the great Universe, rolling on its path

round the world, obeys: — Obeys Thee, wherever Thou guidest, and gladly

is bound in Thy bands, So great is the power Thou confidest, with strong,

invincible hands, To Thy mighty, ministering servant, the bolt of

the thunder, that flies, Two-edged, like a sword and fervent, that is living

and never dies. All Nature, in fear and dismay, doth quake in the

path of its stroke, What time Thou preparest the way for the one

Word Thy lips have spoke, Which blends with lights smaller and greater, and

pervadeth and thrilleth all things, So great is Thy power and Thy nature — in
the

Universe, Highest of Kings! On Earth, of all deeds that are done, O God!

there is none without Thee,

In the holy sether not one, nor one on the face of the sea;

Save the deeds that evil men, driven by their own blind folly, have planned,

But things that have grown uneven are made even again by Thy hand.

And things unseemly grow seemly; the unfriendly are friendly to Thee,

For so good and evil supremely Thou hast blended in one by decree.

For all Thy decree is one ever — word that endureth for aye,

Which mortals, rebellious, endeavor to flee from and shun to obey —

Ill-fated, that, worn with proneness for the lordship of goodly things,

Neither hear nor behold in its Oneness, the law that Divinity brings;

Which men with reason obeying, might attain unto glorious life,

No longer aimlessly straying in the paths of ignoble strife.

There are men with a zeal unblest, that are wasted

with pursuit of fame, And men with a baser quest, that are turned to

lucre and shame. There are men, too, that pamper and pleasure the

flesh with delicate stings: All these desire beyond measure to be other than

all these things.

Great Jove, All-giver, dark-clouded, great Lord

of the thunderbolt's breath! Deliver the men that are shrouded in ignorance,

dismal as death. O Father, dispel from their soul the darkness, and

grant them the light Of Reason, Thy day, when the whole wide world

Thou rulest with might, That we, being honored, may honor Thy name

with the music of hymns, Extolling the deeds of the Donor, unceasing, as

rightly beseems Mankind; for no worthier trust is awarded to

god or to man Than forever to glory with justice in the law that

endures and is One.

THE WAY OF THE EPICUREAN

HAPPINESS BY PLEASURE

s

THE WAY OF THE EPICUREAN

HAPPINESS BY PLEASURE

IT was inevitable that, having spoken of Stoic philosophy and its modern
representatives, we should turn to some treatment of what might be dignified by
the name of Epicureanism; for three great words in human philosophy represent
three great forces in human life: Cynicism, Stoicism, and Epicureanism. But it
must be remembered that the ancient Cynic is the modern ascetic, not the modern
cynic, who is simply a man who has suffered a hemorrhage of his emotions and
had his veins filled with water; he has no share in the cynicism of the Greek
thought. The Philosophic Cynic was an ascetic who believed that the things of
earth were essentially evil, and that man must live above and apart from them.
He was an ascetic, able to build his own cloister out of the air; he did not
need to be walled in with stone; he was apart from the world and yet the
boundaries of his cloister were translucent to the eye. The Stoic was the real
philosopher, both of the fourth century before Christ and the second century
after, having his foundation of thought in Zeno, who was a little later than
Plato and Aristotle, and having his last expression in Julian of the fourth
century, but his best expression in Marcus Antoninus, as in those Meditations 
that begin, "The Emperor Antoninus with himself."

Also, when we speak of Epicureanism, we must distinguish what Epicurus
understood it to be from what we understand it to be; for Epicurus, though a
materialist and making no boast of religion, was, with Aristippus, the exponent
of a real philosophy of contentment; the watchword of Epicureanism in the third
and fourth centuries before Christ was imperturbability. If you would find out
what it came to mean to the classical mind, Greek and Roman, you must go back
to the century preceding Christ, and read, on the one hand, Lucretius, and on
the other, Horace, both legitimate descendants of Epicurus — with a difference.

They are the poetic and graceful expression of a rather severe philosophy that
had to do with emotions and pleasures of life. Epicurus could not sing his
thought; Horace could. Epicurus could reason out his thought, so, in verse,
could Lucretius; but the motto that might be inscribed on all the more ancient
forms summed up under the name of Hedonism is imperturbability. Very briefly,
this was the method: the Cynic thought nothing good; the followers of Epicurus
thought all things perilously good. The Cynic said, "I must deny myself "; the
Epicurean said, "I must control myself." The Cynic said, "I will stop all means
of ingress to the soul, and it shall look out of its windows upon a gray
world." The Stoic said, "The world is good, and God is immanent" — he almost
uttered the modern phrase that" God is the soul of the atom as He is the soul
of the man." But the Epicurean said: "All this world that seems gray is really
blinding with excess of light; it is a refulgent day, saturate with good, but
it must not minister to me so that I shall not be able to measure the portion
that I take. I have my scales of measurement perfectly adjusted; I must have my
appetite for pleasure perfectly in hand, to receive into myself that which I
have determined that I can assimilate of the delights of life; and even the
delights that are normal must be measured by the normal man." So the normal
man, to the Epicurean, was the perfectly balanced man, to whom the delights of
life were real, but who refused to "let himself go." Now, the duty of man, not
simply his privilege, is happiness; the search for happiness is his inevitable
destiny; the appetite for happiness is a normal passion of the mind, and
further, in this little contribution to the memory of Epicurus, I will say that
it is not only our duty to be happy, but a man is entitled, not only to
happiness as a privilege, and as a duty, but he must be just as glad, and have
such invoice of joy laid at the door of his soul as he can command, and not
lose himself. For it is true of pleasure, as of everything else, that no right
passion can be pursued for its own sake. While every appetite has its
correlative supply, it is not a black flag floating from the top of a volcanic
mountain; it is rather the beacon flaming on the shores of Greece, to tell
where home and native land may be for those that wander on the sea; and while
every natural desire is proof and prophecy of a correlative supply, being
followed for itself alone it falls to dust, crumbles in the hand, and is
without satisfaction. There must be some translation of these normal desires
and appetites of life into terms that are ideal; they must be lifted out of the
common dust into which they are fallen, and interpreted in terms of the laws of
the mind. Since this is so, we are entitled to be just as glad as we can. With
Stevenson we would say,

\ "Gentleness and tenderness, these come before all morality. They are the
perfect duties. If your morals make you dreary, they are wrong. Do

X not give them up, but conceal them like a vice, lest they should spoil the
lives of better men." It is our business to be glad, the very purpose of
religion is to add zest to life. The pursuit of pleasure, not for its own sake
but because we are in the running, is a part of the legitimate function of
life. It used to be said that religion was meant as a kind of insurance; that
has lost its significance, first in theology and now in practice. No such view
of religion has any value; it is the business of man to be glad, and he is so
organized that what came in with his life as a sob is meant to go out with a
song. No wonder Wesley, seeing that he had accomplished the great task of his
life, exclaimed, "Our people die well."

But let us return to Epicurus. To him there were three kinds of wants known to
the normal man: First were the needs that were natural and
indispensable—hunger, for instance. At the other extremity of thought and
experience were the wants that were artificial and imaginary. Midway between
lay the wants that were natural, but not indispensable. The first are
fundamental instincts of the material and mental life, and cannot be denied.
The next, according to Epicurus, must be easily disposed of and dismissed. They
are not to complicate life, to be the unnecessary baggage of people that must
"travel light" if they are to go into battle unimpeded. Upon the third group,
the wants that are natural, but not indispensable, the human spirit must
exercise its power of choice, must choose the things that will give the
greatest pleasure without any associated pain. We must not be swept by passion
of any kind, because that leaves us unstrung and spent. Now what was the
difficulty in this, as a scheme of life? The difficulty lay first in the fact
that it was entirely individual, the pursuit of pleasure was for the man
himself. One of the singular things about human life, this beautiful human
life, is that what we pursue as pleasure only must be individual only; for the
moment we pursue it for another it is translated at once from pleasure into
Good, from the brass into the gold, from the glittering gem of paste into the
heart of fire in the diamond. You can only pursue pleasure for yourself.
Attempt to pursue it for any one else, and it becomes Good. Watch in the next
five years the organizations that will be made. Observe how already one
magazine that has been engaged in tearing down reputations now invites the
public attention with a series of articles which it calls, "The Soldiers of the
Common Good." It is a significant sign. Only the other day a man spoke to me
about a scheme he had for the common people, which he called the Brotherhood of
the Commonwealth. I have had a similar dream for

years; that since we could not agree upon theological distinctions and
definitions, we might agree to be good, to be useful, and that the brotherhood
of the Common Life might be in all the churches, and should have for its
conditions only personal purity, freedom of thought, and the help of the next
man. So, in the coming five years, we may expect that out of this raging flood
of selfishness, out of this debauch of self-seeking, not only in the search and
pursuit of pleasure, but in the greed and gluttony of wealth and work — for
they go together in this time — out of these shall arise sporadic processes and
occasional attempts to lift life until there is formed a steady rising tide of
feeling which shall rebuke the pursuit of pleasure for the one by translating
it into Good for the many. For the one, and not for the other, is the doctrine
of Epicurus. I recognize the fact that Jesus, in his second great commandment,
was not oblivious of the dignity that belongs to the first person. "Thou shalt
love thy neighbor as thyself" was his altruistic challenge. Obviously, thou
shalt love thyself, so that he who receives your love in his turn shall find
the type and pattern which has satisfied your own soul. How am I to "love my
brother" unless I know how to love myself so well, that I shall brim with
affection, so that his soul shall be slaked with what has quenched my own?
This, then, is the line of the pursuit of pleasure that separates us in our
century from the Epicurean type, both in its ancient and modern form.

The second difficulty attendant upon Epicureanism appears in the fact that it
not only limited itself to the individual, but that it did not recognize the
individual as a person. It said: "All pleasures flow my way. The lay of the
land is that way. The sluiceways are built to end in my soul, and all the
floods of delight are out. I will put a strainer over the mouth of the conduit,
and only let through the things that I can accommodate." That is not
personality, that is individuality. A person cannot be separated from his kind;
the moment he is, he becomes simply an individual. Personality is the
background of individuality. Personality has its essential basis in humanity,
it is only the individual that can become inhuman. Individuals are tyrannous.

"It is excellent To have a giant's strength; but it is tyrannous To use it like
a giant."

It all resolves itself, in the last analysis, into egotism. This is the second
objection, that it not only stops with the individual, but it makes him
individual, and denies him the dignity of personality. There are three
objections to the pursuit of pleasure either in the moderate form of
Epicureanism or in the abandon of modern life; it ignores the sense of duty —
in this the Stoic was supreme, and the Cynic a pattern of what a man ought to
do and be, but the ease-seeker, looking only for the welfare of the individual
and his delight, must essentially ignore the sense of duty. You can even be
religious alone; pleasure may find its centre in a single nature, but the
moment morality appears, the other man appears with it. Pleasure which is
limited in its survey of the individual precludes the idea of duty, because
duty has its field always, in part at least, in the other man. Recall an old
illustration: I have no doubt that Robinson Crusoe had many joyous moments
alone on his desert island; I dare say he had lived in a great city, and liked
being in the country by himself for a while. But there was no duty involved; he
had enough to do, enough to employ him, he had his own thoughts, he could carry
out to his heart's content any "single tax" theory he may have had. But one day
"Friday" appeared, and immediately the second table of the law went into
effect. And it is this, in the ultimate analysis, that constitutes the joys of
society. Epicurus said, "Why should I eat alone when I might eat with my
friends?" But Epicureanism carried out to the end, in the modern search for
happiness, disintegrates society, impairs its structure, and impairs its
healthy organism. Why? Because it is all very well to say that the individual
cell is not a tissue; the tissue is that cell multiplied by itself many times.
And the perfection of the individual as a human soul, multiplied by itself
times enough, gives a social state that will stand. All else falls to pieces by
its own weight of decay. Society, in its best sense, is an organism of which we
are each a part, an organism in which every cell has conciousness; thus,
society is the divinest thing we have; and the search for pleasure, in itself,
is its death because it cannot be organized merely in terms of delight any more
than you can organize the sea in terms of its crested, rolling waves.

Still another objection to Epicureanism, ancient and modern, is that it refused
to be moved by the highest as well as by the lowest interests. All life marches
together, "horse, foot, and dragoon"; all are aligned; all are under the same
marching orders; the man below is as important as the man above. No sympathy
can be felt with churches that say they " must have some place for clean people
to go to." The Epicurean is a dilettante. Many useless types exist in the
world, but I suppose the dainty man — I do not say the dainty woman — the
dilettante man, the picker and chooser of nice morsels of life, is about as
nearly vacated of mind as anything can be; and the tendency of the pursuit of
pleasure for itself is to make it go up to vacancy or go down to sin. I am not
speaking of the windows open to the east or of those wide slopes to the south
in which fruit and flowers grow at their best; no, these are the influxes of
delight from Him who looked upon His work and "found it good." I speak of the
ferret

that follows pleasure to its hole, of the blase type that have exhausted all
the emotions, that have a very moderate range and programme of the sins that
life still holds and that still remain to live their vacant lives.

Now, a final objection to the pursuit of pleasure for itself. It provides only
for mortality. No pleasure-seeker, per se, can be other than a materialist. Of
course there are delights of mind, and there are joys of social intercourse and
all the rest that I need not enumerate. It is possible to seek pleasure so
moderately that it shall last a long while; but, in the last analysis of the
search for pleasure for its own sake, it is the act of a materialist, and it
sometime or other must end, because the materialist is always mortal. Epicurus
said: "Why should I be disturbed about death? The pain is in anticipation, for
when life is, death is not, and when death is, life is not." There are people
who would like that phrase, people who think they have cured the internal
injury when they have affixed a strip of something that adheres to the outward
wound.

Turn again to Robert Louis Stevenson and let me quote those familiar lines in
which a better attitude to life is shown, and remember that Stevenson was an
invalid with small resources of strength, who must coin the measure of his days
into terms of happiness or sink into the melancholy of permanent invalidism:—

"If I have faltered more or less
In my great task of happiness,
If I have moved among my race,
And shown no glorious morning face;
If beams from happy human eyes
Have moved me not; if morning skies,
Books and my food, and summer rain
Knocked on my sullen heart in vain —
Lord, thy most pointed pleasure take
And stab my spirit broad awake!
Or, Lord, if too obdurate I,
Choose thou, before that spirit die,
A piercing pain, a killing sin,
And to my dead heart run them in."

Here was a man who knew that the destiny of man is happiness, and knew also
that that destiny is in his own keeping.

[graphic]

THE WAY OF THE ALTRUIST

ONE'S SELF AND THE OTHER

THE WAY OF THE ALTRUIST

ONE'S SELF AND THE OTHER

NO consideration of happiness would be more than begun unless altruism,—the
sense of the other,—upon which happiness so much depends, should have
constituted a part of the discussion. Somebody has said cleverly, and, I think,
truly, that "one can bear trouble alone, but it takes two to be glad." It is an
echo of that statement in the very beginnings of religious history where it is
recorded in Genesis that "it is not good for man to be alone," therefore did
God make "a help meet for him" — that is, according to Plato's definition, He
completed the sphere of life by furnishing the other hemisphere.

In the presentation of the subject of one's self and the other, we must
determine first of all what is due to one's self. There is a large group of
people who think that when you have vacated the

self, you have arrived at blessedness. There is a selfishness — or, since that
word has fallen into such disrepute, let us say a selfness — that is an
obligation upon every human being. For Jesus knew what he was saying when he
said, "Thou shalt love the other as thyself." How shall I know what that means
unless I love myself nobly, strongly, cleanly? If I am afraid to be alone, if I
am in bad company when I am alone, if my noble hours are only distinguished
from my ignoble by the fact that my noble hours are spent with others, if I
have to shut up my mind so that I cannot open it except in company, if the
desolation of life is with me when I am in the sterile desert of my own
ineffectiveness, and life blooms when some other hand has planted the flowers,
then of my life it must be written, "The glory has departed." Why should all
nature, through immemorial seons, have been building a human soul if the soul
is not divine in its consciousness, if it is not the very flower of creation?
Thou shalt love the other as thyself when thou shalt apprehend the dignity
which is in thyself. Why should only the failures love the other, why should
only the emaciated souls love the other, why should the ansemic spirits love
the other, and we think that we are only capable of generosity when we have
emptied the mind, and that we are only able to distribute the largess of life
when we have impoverished ourselves? That is the difficulty with the three
forms of philosophy which we have been considering. To the Cynic the world was
not good, so he could not be happy; the Stoic was a man to whom the immanence
of God was so real that his whole attention was taken up by the divine
communion and the raising of barriers against the inroads of life; whilst the
Epicurean of the older type discriminated between the wants which are natural
and inevitable, the wants natural but not inevitable, and the wants that are
superficial, so that he might reach imperturbability. That is the difficulty
with these classes of thought. Now we come to the real Christian doctrine —
Christian doctrine is never a speculative proposition. There is not one
Christian doctrine on which Christian life depends that is derived from the
area of speculative philosophy — not one! It would require much argument and a
great volume for the complete demonstration of this fact; for the human mind
has constructed so many theories that it would take many pages to contain the
inquisition, and to trace them to their roots and show that no one of them was
essential to the welfare of the human soul. Essential Christianity does not
consist in speculative belief. Entertaining, interesting, exciting as these
theories may be, they are not essential. Christian religion consists only in
one relation, with its corollary: the relation of the soul to God, and the
inevitable obligation of the soul to promote that relation in other souls. But
first of all the soul must be sure of itself. I speak of this with the more
insistence, because so much poor work is done by men poorly equipped in mind or
body or estate; so many people go out to look for "the other" when their own
lives are so ill-charted that they can hardly find their way back. They have no
philosophy of life, no attitude toward life; they have merely an impulse,
tendency, and locomotive power to carry them on. Nothing comes finally of such
effort but distress; some spasmodic good is done perhaps; some sporadic good
may be done in this scattering way; but how can I organize my endeavor, who am
myself fallen into disorder? It is first necessary that the soul shall be sure
of itself. Then, next, that it shall find the centre of its integrity in
itself; that it shall have a constant integrity; I do not mean by that a
perfect character but an integrity of being — that it shall be all there; that
it shall be so equipped, organized, focussed for its work, that life shall
become effective, because it has in it a dynamic power. Thus it appears that in
the helping of others to happiness the first business is with myself.

But it is also imperative to remember that as every other impulse served for
itself decays, as every other noble aspiration followed on its own lines 
evaporates, so this consciousness of integrity, of nobility, of self-power and
effectiveness, if it end there, brings moral paralysis and fails of purpose.
You remember how the irregularities of the French Revolution, the vagaries of
Rousseau's thought in the springing up and intemperance of the French
philosophy, gave point to what Matthew Arnold says of George Sand: —

"How the sentences from George Sand's works of that period still linger in our
memory and haunt the ear with their cadences! Grandiose and moving, they come,
those cadences, like the sighing of the wind through the forest, like the
breaking of the waves on the seashore." And then he quotes, after two other
passages, a short one which he describes as the "doctrine" of Jacques, "Life is
arid and terrible, repose is a dream, prudence is useless; mere reason alone
serves simply to dry up the heart: there is but one virtue, the eternal
sacrifice of one's self."

That is immensely strong, and all the stronger because it is a current so
powerful and tempestuous that it is in danger of breaking down the banks of
rationality.

What is the true mean then between these two extremes of a selfishness that
ends with self, and an altruism that takes the form of eternal sacrifice? How
should one expect to be happy who has no self-centred interests, no conscious
power? Do you not know that happiness depends in the first instance upon
effectiveness and strength? If the reason halts, how can any one be happy? If
the effectiveness be below par, who can be use

ful or happy? The perfection of happiness which is sought in the other has for
its beginnings the consciousness of self. But there is a larger truth to which
this leads the way; it is true, doubtless, that God will be glad to get us back
to Him with whatever is left of us, but we will come to Him with a springy step
and with a song upon our lips, the more there is left of us. "The prodigal"
came back sick and haggard, emaciated and ragged and starved, and was taken
into the arms of love; but what happiness would have been in the house if from
his far journey he had returned and, instead of "This is my son who was dead
and is alive again," the father had welcomed him saying, "He that went forth
from us alive has come back with life abundantly." When this central power has
been established, duty becomes plain. The only purpose of knowing is to teach; 
the only purpose of having is to have wherewith to give; the only purpose of
being strong is to lift some part of the weight of the world! The man who
simply knows and has no instinct to teach is an intellectual egotist, a prig;
the most detestable thing on earth probably is the man who has poured into his
mind from the resources of the world, as though he had sat at the gate of
tribute and the world had laid its treasures at his feet, who has accumulated
these treasures and then gone away and shut himself up in his house that no one
might share them or know the benefit of his possessions. Happily, there are few
such! God has ordained the human mind so that its angle of reflection is equal
to its angle of incidence, and the human mind has a kind of delight in stating
what it knows; sometimes indeed from cerebral congestion, sometimes perhaps
from the desire to show that the desire is there. So that much good knowledge
is, in fact, put out without good motive. Or take the man of wealth who simply
has. Nature has been kind to him, the laws of commerce have worked his way,
interests of trade have been in his favor, he has been careful and strong and
wise to follow; or maybe he has not even worked or been wise, maybe somebody
has left money and estates to him, and the poor creature has been born into the
world with that responsibility and no training to meet it: these are the men
who simply have. All my boyhood I heard Johns Hopkins berated for his meanness.
He had much; all manner of stories were told about his meanness, — some of them
were not true, perhaps, some of them had occasion, — but when he died he had
managed to get together several millions for a great purpose, and everybody
felt like apologizing for the jests which were proved unjust. He had a great
purpose and kept it to himself; one imagines he might have had a happier life,
and have made others happier, if his watertight mind and watertight treasure
had sprung an occasional leak. The man who has, and does not know how to give,
gathers to himself with his gathering wealth a great peril, unless it is offset
in his mind by a great purpose; and a man must have an awful life who has no
purpose to distribute, or who has a secret purpose and then dies without
warning, so that he has never told any one what it is; I should think his ghost
would be restless to think how he missed imparting his joy to other men. The
business of life, so far as riches are concerned, is to hold them in the hand
of a divine and splendid purpose, and to revise your will once in twelve
months, to make the gain match the purpose. A man makes a will for all time,
and counts on never gaining in his mind or soul, when a thousand things may
come into existence in a twelvemonth. The purpose of knowing then is to teach;
of having, to give; of being strong, to lift. These are truisms, all believe
them; but the difficulty is to get people to act as though they believed them.
It is illustrated by the reply of the village "natural," when asked by some
visitors, as he sat outside the church door at the end of the service, whether
it were "all done." — "No," said he, "it's all said; it's to be done!"

So we come to the duty to "the other" as the ground of happiness. What of this
other? What form shall concern for the other take? In the first place, human
interest is a different thing from human interests. Human interests are
interesting; people's affairs are engrossingly, absorbingly interesting when
they are real and important, but it is the folk that make them so. Take an
uninteresting, stupid man — what do I care what happens to him, as far as his
affairs go? He is stupid and dull, a mere stick driven into the earth, why
should I care what happens to him? Nothing that happens to uninteresting people
seems interesting. Why? Because the interest in the affairs of folk is due to
the kind of folk they are. Two men die side by side in some disaster; the one
is just the ordinary clay mixture, the other a man intent upon the welfare of
the world, part and parcel of some great enterprise, and you find yourself in
the one case moved by the disaster, in the other simply commiserating, pitying
one more victim of accident. It does not depend, as in battle, even, on the
rank of the person killed or injured, but upon the spirit and inner self of the
person hurt in the battle of life. The commonest thing to hear is, "Why should
this one be taken away when there are so many we could spare?" What does it
mean? It is an unconscious philosophy of the speaker that makes him feel that
people are interesting as to what happens to them only by virtue of the kind of
people they are. Now, here we get our first lesson. Human interest is ideal, 
not human interests; interest in the possibilities of human nature itself.
Imagine two men. Both have been born, as we say, at a disadvantage. Out of the
one you could have

made nothing but filling, so far as you can see: he could never have been used
in building life; he would not serve as a stone in the wall or a brick in the
house. But when you come to the other, you find possibilities in his nature,
you find the alertness of his mind, the sensitiveness of his spirit, and you
understand why no disadvantage has been able to keep him down. Our belief in
the possibilities of human nature is challenged; and that is the reason we
cannot believe in "the total depravity of man." The Bible does not teach it (if
anybody cares about that); Jesus did not recognize it; even Paul, with all his
rabbinical knowledge, never felt it incumbent upon him to teach it. So even
"Bible-Christians" do not have to believe in "human depravity." We cannot
believe that man is incapable of good except by a grafting process after he
comes to years of responsibility. It is a spiritual being that we are dealing
with, from the beginning, not a mere thing of flesh and blood. And upon the
basis of our interest in humanity as humanity we ground our happiness in the
service of the other. That is, we are not in an "insurance investigation," not
trying to make things right that have gone wrong, building up from the bottom
something that has fallen into decay, but doing as the Master of Life did,
taking man as he is, because he is man; building on sound foundations the
structure of his life, and I do not see what gospel — good news — there can be
which is not based on human perfectibility.

Let us consider a little the conditions that human nature finds itself in.
There is nothing in itself regenerative in sorrow or suffering. We find it
difficult to believe that a man is going to have clearer faith, feel more
keenly, act more nobly, because he is racked with pain. Certain kinds of pain
quicken the intellect and take tribute out of some other parts of the system.
If we could bring it about in a single day, we would probably be foolish enough
to try to organize a state of things in which nobody should be a sufferer. If 
suffering be regenerative, why should we have that feeling or desire? Why
should we try to relieve suffering? Let it go on and regenerate the world! That
would seem to be logical. But if suffering is a black flag flying on some
pirate craft that sails the current of the blood, if it is the smoke that rises
from some smouldering, volcanic height, the wreck left from some irremovable
disaster or incurable blunder, then I have every reason to get down to work for
"the other." Then there is a reason for working for " the other "; and I do not
believe there is a single wrong or pain in the world that is not given to us in
charge to relieve in our measure, and the self that is up to its task — not
some emaciated self hanging over the margins of life, or some self-indulgent
self, but the real self that is up to its task — has enough work to keep it at
its best, and will get its best happiness from doing that work.

Now I come to the third and last particular. The happiness of working for the
other comes from the motive. There is a doing of duty that is almost as
ineffectual as the leaving it undone. Who wants to be loved to order? Who wants
to be served because one must? "Not with eyeservice," says the apostle, "as
men-pleasers, but as doing the will of God from the heart." Splendid
discrimination! For the world is divided into three classes of people: the
first class — a great class — are the people who do good because they ought to
do it, because it is on the programme and they feel ashamed not to do it; they
say: "I must do this thing, it has to be done, I must do it in self-defence; if
we let poverty grow, nobody will have anything; if we let sickness rage in the
close quarters of the city, it will get up to Fifth Avenue and Madison Avenue
and the West Side; we must support the police department;" and the whole
attitude is simply one of self-defence; they work for the good of others
because of the defence it procures for themselves. The city of New York will
spend next year just short of one hundred and eighteen million dollars largely
upon the work of self-defence. It is the feeling for work that the artisan has
who suspends his hammer at the stroke of the clock, that your own helpers in
domestic life have when they do not sweep in the corners. No happiness comes of
that kind of work, except from the fact that contagious diseases do not get
ahead and poverty does not seem to increase. We have found a way to put our
finger on the leak in the dike, but it is a paralyzing effort to stop the leak
thus to keep it from inundating the fields. The next class of people are those
who are really interested in men and women, who want to work for "the other,"
who believe in service, but who are never quite sure that it is worth while
unless they hear something from it. They want to see it succeed. They want to
know that it has been effective; they want to have, not "engrossed
resolutions," perhaps, but "appreciation." The world is full of very good and
useful people whose happiness depends largely upon the recognition of their
services, with no unworthy motive for the most part, but simply the f eeling
that if they plant something, they want it to grow and to bloom; and when it
happens they have made a mistake and planted a succulent root that turns out to
be a vegetable and grows down out of sight, they are not content. The third
class of people doing good are the people who get the real happiness out of
service. Thank God there are some in every community, almost in every large
family, but they are not so common yet as to have held conventions or organized
happiness-clubs. They are the people who do good simply for the fun of it, who

say, 'What a wonderful thing it is that God has given me this knowledge, that I
can go and tell it; I must tell to the first man I meet, this news concerning
the great things that have been revealed ;" or who say, "What a wonderful thing
it is that I have prospered so in trade, trade that is so unpoetic, or in some
profession, so that I have gathered much wealth; now let me see what things I
can do." These are the people who get all the returns from the thing done. It
is so beautiful that it would seem as if it were worth while for more of us to
be like that, that we might go into the enrichment of life, not to do good in
order that it may be done, or to gain appreciation, but just for the doing of
it, just as you love a child for its "childness," because it is a blossom from
the tree of life. That is where the happiness comes in, when we can feel such
self-hood in ourselves that there is nothing to do but to do the will of God
for the other. And to that happiness I commend you!

[graphic][merged small][ocr errors]

THE WAY OF WORSHIP

HAPPINESS BY INSPIRATION

THERE is a path to Happiness which I shall call The Way of Worship. I believe
that there is such a thing as an adoring man whose face may shine by virtue of
what he finds in prayer. The way of worship, as a means to happiness, is what
we will now consider. The psalm which rises to the high-water mark of Hebrew
poetry is the one hundred and thirty-ninth. The psalmist speaks of God as
everywhere that the soul may go. And lest it should seem that thinking of God
as in the heavens, where the soul may go, in the grave where the body may lie,
in the underworld to which the spirit may depart: "Though I take the wings of
the morning and fly unto the uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall thy
hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me;" feeling that all this may make
God seem too

remote, he says, "How precious are thy thoughts unto me, how great is the sum
of them;" that is, not the man's thoughts of God, but the thoughts of God that
reached the man in his moments of adoration. How precious also the Omnipresent
is when He is near. "How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God! how
great is the sum of them! If I should count them, they are more in number than
the sand: when I awake I am still with thee:" as though God had thought on his
sleeping child—" I am still with thee." It is what the child might say that
waked in its mother's arms, what the infant might feel that knew its mother's
bosom under its cheek when it awoke.

What is the happiness that comes with worship? Note, first, the act of worship
is not only a state of mind, it is a transaction of the spirit. If it be
relegated simply to a state of mind, it is apt to become vague, and, being
inarticulate, to become unconscious. It is more than a state of mind, though
adoration be the attitude of one who is enamored of some goodness before which
the spirit prostrates itself; it is more than this, it is a transaction, it is
something that happens. It is the passage from one pole of central energy to
another. It is an act of the vital human spirit, seeking the sources of its
supply, seeking the ground of its being, seeking the meaning of its days,
seeking to interpret itself by seeing itself in the mirror of the soul. It is
an act of the human spirit, not simply the state that comes over the spirit,
and is undefined and vague. This act has run the whole gamut of human emotion.
First of all it was fear that drove the trembler to the feet of his God; and he
sought to make terms with him, sometimes by playing off one deity against the
other, in order that where Mercury was too cunning Zeus might be strong, or
Minerva wise; making terms with Juno, of whom Jupiter was really afraid; making
terms with the Fates, the Gray Sisters who stood behind the Gods. "For fear,"
said the primitive man, "I will seek God." The first act of worship was a
running to cover, an effort to shelter one's self from the Gods. For that
reason, men have very largely prayed at a diabolical shrine; they have
worshipped a devil, because they were afraid of the Gods. It has seemed
sometimes to the primitive man easier to make terms with the demons, as being
next of kin with a depraved humanity, than to get into good relations with the
Gods, and the proof of this is found in the habit of mind of people to-day, not
on good terms with their Heavenly Father, who, if you say to them, "The Devil
is dead," will act as if a member of the family had passed away. I have heard
people called atheists because they did not believe in the Devil. It is the
reflection in the mind of to-day — if that can be called mind which reflects so
poorly — of the age-long fear that kept the soul in perpetual oscillation
between the gods that were not kind and the demons that were wicked, so that
the poor soul was driven into an atheism of reaction; and we find ourselves in
the position of the little girl who had heard of Heaven as a home of such tame
delights, that she asked if she would sometime be able to have a half-holiday
when she got there, to go to the other place.

After the man whose worship is an act of fear, comes the man to whom it is an
act of magic, a species of necromancy. With him it means getting into touch and
being on terms with the powers that be, so that some process, not defined, can
make things different for him. Out of this grows that dreadful doctrine of "a
special providence." I have known profoundly good people who believed that God
had every item of their lives in His immediate care — as in one sense He
undoubtedly has — as one keeps a set of books with its debit and credit side;
and they speak of God as so immediately interfering that the only thing that
keeps it from being a miracle is the insistence of the commonplace. It ceases
to be wonderful, first because it often fails, and secondly, because it has to
do with things that the believer should have done for himself. We answer, at
our best, many of our own prayers, and our Providence takes the form of
personal industry. With these people, God is approached as a shrine might be
approached where some word of Apollo might be heard, and where the people
wondered whether the Python would respond or not. I said to my guide in Venice,
"Antonio, do you think this is really the finger of St. Thomas with which he
touched the side of the Saviour?" And he said, "I do not know; many gentlemen
have seen it in many places." No, St. Thomas must not be confounded with the
"many-handed" of the pagan myth. The crowds kiss the relics enclosed from their
lips by the prudence of the Church. This magic of worship is natural but it is
not final. The use of the divine powers which we do not understand, as a form
of magic for our relief, runs the whole gamut of human ignorance and of human
devotion. But whether the inspiration be fear, or a confidence that God can
interfere, or whether it be the soul's approach with love, whether it be the
act of St. Anthony who lived a cloistered life because of the sin that might
assail him in the world, or of Jesus, who lived the common life, the women
following him from Galilee into Judea, ministering unto him in the common ways
of food and companionship — whatever be the way, and whatever be the motive,
the act is the same; it is the bridging over of the space between God and man. 
I may cross the bridge quaking with fear till all the structure of my worship
tremble with my agitation, or I may wait until God shall manifest Himself,
being sure I shall not wait in vain; but in any aspect, it is not to be
regarded as an act of levy upon heaven

if one would be happy in it. It is not the making out of a bill of tribute upon
my part to the greatness on His part that it may be honored by Him in proof of
His greatness by the gifts He may give. Worship at its best and happiest is God
at hand. So we draw ourselves out of this quag and morass of fear, and some
mystical song is sung where only, in earlier days, was heard the cry of
distress; some such song as this: —

"Dear Lord, since Thou didst make the earth,
Thou mad'st it not for grief, but mirth;
Therefore will I be glad,
And let who will be sad.

"For if I load my life with care
What profits me the buxom air,

And what the sweet birds' choir

Or Heaven's azure fire? Lord, as 'tis Thine eternal state With joy undimmed to
contemplate

The world that Thou hast wrought

As mirror for Thy thought, So every morning I would rise, And offer Thee for
sacrifice

A spirit bright and clear

As the wide atmosphere.

"For, Lord, since all is well with Thee,
It cannot well be ill with me."

Now that is as remote and apart and beyond mere petition for some good I need
as the love of a child that cuddles down is beyond the love of a child that
teases to have its way. This is the supremest act of the spirit. It is beyond
thought. It is not the range of our thoughts that brings us peace. It is not
the profundity of our philosophy that brings us calm. Our philosophy is born of
our calm. It is not mere emotion, it is emotion sinking to quiet. It is the
soul relating itself to the soul of God; it is no longer prayer importunate,
but the "peace of God which passeth understanding." So Jesus said, "These
things have I said unto you that my joy may be in you and your joy may be
filled." So the sea might say to all the little pools ashore, "The tide is
rising, the sea is full, the great waves are rolling toward the shore, let all
the little shallow reaches, let all the little swimming creatures that pant for
breath in the little pools, rejoice; the tid^ is up and shall fill you unto
your brimming measure." "These things have I said unto you that my joy might be
in you, and that your joy might be full."

"The Man of Sorrows and Acquainted with Grief," as we call the Master of the
Art of Living, was a glad spirit, so remote from sorrow that he had no sorrows
of his own — and the sorrows of another do not wear us to the bone; the sorrows
of another are partly mitigated for us by the care we take of them, so that we
bear them for that other, and have the joy of strength as well as the burden of
solicitude. So of this glad spirit, this Master of the Art of Living, it is
said: "Because thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity, therefore God,
even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows."
It was he who said, "I and my Father are one;" and, "I am not alone, for the
Father is with me." This is the normal state of the spirit at-one with God. The
at-one-ment is the Atonement.

Now consider for a moment, behind the act of worship is its object. You have no
God except the God you select. There is a choice even among ideals, how much
more among idols. Shall I go to India and select for the ornamentation of the
high-ideal place some gruesome figure that filled with dread the Indian
worshipper, or to Rome or Greece and find some graceful form, Apollo with his
lyre or bow, and place the figure where it will give me pleasant thoughts?
These are only the representations of a state of mind out of which they were
created. No God is better than the worshipper. Of course, the unthinking
immediately say then there is no God, that if I create the being I worship that
being does not exist until I create him. But that is a most unphilosophical
statement, a fallacy with which people who are disinclined to pray, who are
averse to worship and do not know the happiness of divine communion, try to
avoid a plain duty, and thus miss a great joy because they have not yet
understood a great privilege. It is in religion as in common things; the proof
of development is in common things shown when people have gone beyond the point
where they are made to rally round a grievance, and can be collected around a
benefit. That marks a great growth in the popular mind, and the climax is
reached when the benefit around which they rally is the benefit to another man.
And it is so in religion. Is it not Mrs. Browning who says, how many say "God
be pitiful!" who ne'er said "God be praised"? We are apt to summon our God for
moments of "first aid to the injured!" Our worship is often a relief process in
the emergency of life's accidents; and it is not true worship so long as it
rests upon that plane. No. The soul creates a beautiful object of worship, it
does not create the Reality for which this beauty stands. Our knowledge grows.
We were once taught that there were only a few elements that made up the ground
plan of the world; now we know there are more than seventy such. There are a
hundred million worlds known to astronomy that were only seen in the glitter of
the few we could observe with the naked eye when we were children. But they
were always there, though we did not see them. We only worship what we can
conceive. That is the reason that an inhuman theology is a hindrance to
religion. If God be not beautiful, the soul cannot pray. If God be hideous, the
beauty-loving soul turns away, for our instincts Godward are the flight of the
best that is in us. God is as great as our conception of Him; though He is
infinitely more than we can conceive. I feel sure that worship stands for a

great human instinct, and that, whether it be in some Alaskan remoteness where
the totem stands, or in some southwestern Indian tribe where the medicine man
and the priest together prescribe the terms of divine communion, or in any
other remote effort to find the way of God, or in the highest and best who
worship the Beauty of Holiness — from lowest to highest — from hideous
superstition to ineffable glory — there is no prayer that is not heard by the
Being that made the man who prays. Does the savage wear an amulet? You wear a
cross. The ancient people of Israel in Russia are being stripped in the Russian
cities to see if upon their breasts they wear a cross, and they are accounted
fit for massacre if the cross be not there. It is all a part of the soul's
agony to find its source, and it only knows its source sometimes by finding its
symbol. It is the running of the stream to the ocean that it may be sucked up
into the sky again! It is the effort to get back again to the beginnings; and
the object of our worship will make our worship noble or ineffectual.

And now, how does the happiness which is the answer come? I have spoken of the
act, and of the object, and of the temper in which the way of worship shall be
followed that there may be a happy spirit in communion with God. What is the
answer? I do not deny for one moment that the path is clearer to his object for
the man who prays than for the man who goes blundering in the conceit of his
own wisdom, for he is surer who leans upon his guide than he who goes feeling
his steps in the darkness. So far, a divine providence may be counted wise and
a good thing to believe in. But when I know God is in every atom as in every
man, when I know that there is nothing without God, then all things in the
world grow sacred, and I cannot lift my eyes but it is His vanishing I behold,
or listen, but it is His footfall that I hear, or breathe, but it is His breath
that I feel on my lips, and the heartbeat of to-day is the register of that
great tide that rolls round all the world, and so I am answered, as I wait and
hear the echo of my thought. It was a wise impulse of Wordsworth to speak of
Duty as "the daughter of the voice of God." It is what the Hebrew meant by
Bath-Kol: the daughter of the voice. The soul that is responsive is like a
sensitive plate upon which things fall to register themselves; and as there is
nothing from which God is absent, the first answer that comes to the soul is in
the consciousness of God. Why should I be conscious of business, of my friends,
of the pain of bodily illness, of the insistent pervading habit of life from
below, conscious of all these things, and not conscious of God? It is as though
a man should say: "I am conscious of everything but the atmosphere, conscious
of everything but the light, conscious of everything but the invading things
that make the world, conscious of all things but that which is everything."
Such a man would be accounted foolish; and God is "nearer than hands or feet."

What shall the answer be in one other particular? The ultimate reality to which
we are to find our way is Personal. Many go astray here, because they have not
known the difference between the personal and the individual. The world is full
of individuals, and has grown a few persons — just a few. The great mass of men
and women, round what centre do they gather, to what end do they move? Some
great soul has appeared upon the shore of their life, has held up the signal of
what they have been thinking and have not been able to say, has registered the
feeling that they in a dim and undefined way had been conscious of, has spoken
the word which in them was inarticulate — A Person has appeared among the
individuals of life, and life is measured henceforth in terms of soul. You can
take a photograph of an individual, but only the heart is sensitive enough to
take the impression of a person. God is personal, He is not enshrined in body
and parts. He is infinite, and infinity knows no parts. "All energy is one, all
forces are its modes of manifestation;" the infinite life that registers itself
in rock and stone for the underpinning of this little world, the infinite life
that breathes in plant and fruit and vine, the infinite life that in the animal
world takes the form of the fleeing doe or the pursuing panther, that gives to
the world in diverse ways the impulse of its being, in man takes the form of
personal consciousness, of personality. A man may be an individual of this or
that kind, he is only personal in the conscious life of his inmost being. The
Ultimate Reality is personal in that sense. I do not doubt that it is a million
things besides; but man at his best is simply conscious, so conscious that he
does not need to speak; he needs only to place himself where God seems to be
near, and he feels all the winter of his life thaw as that spring approaches,
feels all the dulness of his spirit wake as that word is spoken, feels all the
lethargy of his being fall away as that inspiration draws near. Man at his best
is supremely conscious of God. His self-consciousness rises to
God-consciousness. God for him must be always the conscious and personal God,
whatever more He may be. The path of happiness is upward through the reaches of
personality and consciousness of divine things. There wait our crowns of joy,
and there are waiting for us the paeans of our victory. To be human souls is to
be glad in the Soul of All that is!" How precious also are thy thoughts unto
me, O God! How great is the sum of them! If I should count them, they are more
in number

followed for some motive higher than itself, to ends sublimer than its origins.
A number of illustrations of this were suggested. Let me repeat some of them
briefly. Things do not persist on their own levels. Take the common appetite
for food which keeps the world alive. It is rather hunger, I should say, not
food, that keeps the world alive. It is the normal appetite, the telegraphing
of exhausted tissues that they need to be replenished. So fundamental is it
that it works its own process, so wise that it has learnt by experience ofthe
race which does not know any chemistry what to select for food, and so normal
that if you were to present a chemical analysis of the things that would be
nourishing, the appetite for them would disappear. Let this fundamental
appetite be served for itself and you get the glutton, or the epicure, or the
gourmet, or some one of the lower creatures that has learned to walk erect. But
the moment it dawns upon a man that he has to get work out of himself, and must
stoke his fires in order to make the machinery go properly, that he has a piece
of work on hand by which the things "on the hoof" yesterday may be on the wing
to-morrow, he goes to the table as to a sacrament, and the gathering of the
family is a love-feast, the reestablishment of the old agapg, in which the
early church gathered round the common meal because they had work to do for
their common Lord. It is the marvellous translation of human life which brings
about this result, and there is seen a higher law acting upon the plane of a
lower law and transforming it to something better than it was at the beginning.
That is seen all through. That is the problem set in the home — to take the
common instincts which created it and lift them until they create a new thing.
That is the reason you cannot apply the word home either to the harem of the
Turk or to the polygamous household of the Mormon. There you get the instincts
on their own lines. In the Anglo-Saxon home the birth of a child is an
incarnation, and the great God has expressed in terms of a new life the love of
pure people for each other.

What makes the home? Well, at least two people. Lowell has a very acute phrase
in which he says, "Many make the household, one makes the home." That is, the
one for the other makes the home. You cannot have really a home with one
person. And that is the reason that if the single life is to be glorified, it
must have an absorbing mission that takes the place of marriage and children.
That is what saves the great multitude of unmarried women from the decline of
happiness, that most of them have some absorbing ministry that has elevated
their womanhood to a higher function. These unmarried women: I have known them
over and over again to carry upon their bosom the children of other women,
rearing families not their own, and ministering under conditions not theirs the
sweet sacraments of the home, and establishing in terms of maidenly suffering
the sanctities that might have belonged to their motherhood. That is the reason
that we can follow the Master of the Art of Living, Jesus of Nazareth, though
he was unwed; he was married to a great design; so great that it rose above the
levels of his own life; and his mother, and his brothers and sisters followed
him, wondering whither his insanity, as they thought it, would lead. And so
with the Buddha. This is the splendid fact, and it shows beyond all quibble and
question that the marriage which makes the home is an experience of the soul.
Jesus, who had not where to lay his head, we love as though he had been the
head of a household and father of many children; and the Buddha commands the
millions of Buddhism because he put from him the endearments of his home in a
way that the AngloSaxon mind cannot understand, and that there/ fore prevents
any Anglo-Saxon from becoming a Buddhist as long as he is sane. Jesus said: "He
that doeth the will of my Father, the same is my mother and sister and
brother." Jesus found the great consecration; Buddha pointed to the great
renunciation.

That home-love is of the soul appears also in this: that great spiritual
happiness seems to be consistent sometimes with conditions inimical to domestic
peace. I am sorry that Marcus Antoninus had to write his Meditations opening
with the phrase: "The Emperor Antoninus with himself," but I remember that his
wife was infamous, and that Commodus was his son and that all the conditions of
the imperial life were as lonely as those of Epictetus who wandered with his
roll of Plato under his arm through Italy and along the shores of Asia. What I
want to bring to realization is that the home is the sacredest place in the
world, and that human happiness normally is dependent upon it, and it is for
that reason that I have named the things that might possibly be without it, a
great purpose that engrosses the nature and marries the soul to it, as St.
Catherine to her Lord, or a great power of self-levitation, as in Marcus
Antoninus, that made him forget his shameless consort, and comfort himself in
spite of the brutalities of his son. And I remember also that when John Wesley
had left his acerb and difficult domestic life to come out into the damp and
cold of the early morning on the heaths, he went to proclaim the good news of
God to the miners -and the poorer people, and by virtue of the good news he
could give them he could forget temporarily the bad news of his home. But the
normal condition is to set the man in the domestic group and raise his
happiness, term by term, as that group understands the sanctities of its
mission. In that state, what makes the Home? In the first place, it is the
effort of

two human beings to adjust their souls together. Everything below that falls
away from the word Home. Having an establishment does not make a home; being
blessed with the birth of a child does not make a home — you do not go out to
your dog's kennel and look at the newly arrived puppies and say that it is a
home, the mere power of reproduction in life does not make a home; it is the
singular fact that nature is so true to herself that her lower functions
persist when her higher uses have not been discovered. Home is the effort of
two human beings to adjust their souls together. And I suppose that the
sublimest thing that can happen in human life is that. One may have a genius
for friendship, but he does not depend upon his friends; one may have
associates, but they can be spared when some higher work is on hand; but for
all their lives these two people have undertaken to live together, which means
that the deficiencies of the one shall be complemented by the superabundancies
of the other, that the irregularities of their minds shall fit to each other to
make a perfect unseamed and perfectly unbroken whole, and when you realize the
millions of the Anglo-Saxon race to whom that has become an ideal, you do not
wonder at the dominance of that race. And I say with all seriousness that I
believe the dominance of the Anglo-Saxon race in the world will depend largely
upon the integrity and sanctity of the Anglo-Saxon home. That is subject for
debate, of course, and we cannot debate it now. But when you have compared the
brawn of people, and found the brute races stronger, when you have adopted the
statement of Tacitus that "God is with the biggest battalions," and yet find
Napoleon at St. Helena as the result, you may turn from those instances to
think what happened after the Civil War in the United States, when in 1865 a
million men went back to their homes from the passions of war, — and nothing
evil happened. The lover went back to his sweetheart, and the father to his
boys too young to serve, on both sides of the great division, the sons went
back to their fathers and mothers, and a million men dropped back into the
grooves of common life with scarcely a seam left in the welfare of the nation,
aside from the great desolation of war. The war, instead of turning a million
men into tramps and thieves, simply sent them back as though nothing had
happened. That is the difference. A predatory, migratory people does not
recover itself like that. Every man in that war had somebody waiting for him
who had given hostages to liberty; and Dr. Bellows would never have discovered
what he did discover in the conduct of the sanitary commission if he had not
been the child of an American home. He discovered that a soldier is not a
fighting machine but a man away from home on the errands of the Republic.

The secret of a home then is the adjustment of two souls together, so that they
shall make each other richer by the veins of treasure they discover in the mine
of each. It is marvellous how two souls thus adjusted grow in happiness. They
do not think very deeply perhaps in the beginning, they were following the
instinct of nature; mere proximity may have enkindled their affection, but if
they are right-minded and self-adjusted in this sacrament of the heart, they
will set themselves each to the other "like perfect music unto noble words."
"How do I love thee?" says Mrs. Browning —

"I love thee to the level of each day's
Most quiet need, by sun and candlelight,"

and so through the most marvellous love-poems of any nation, the Sonnets from
the Portuguese. These two people together then discover in each other sources
of happiness. It is amazing how rich we grow in the eyes of the other, how our
cleverness is emphasized. It is just as with the children — nobody's children
are so clever as the children that love looks on as its own, — and so the
people who are adjusting their souls to each other discover great vistas of
unexplored beauty, the best in them is brought out; if there is a vein of
chivalry in the man, it is uncovered; he is not much of a fellow down town
perhaps, but he is a great man at home; to have somebody believe in you, brings
out the best that is in you, and if there is any happiness in finding yourself
better than you supposed, the love of a good woman will realize it.

What makes home, in another sense, is that in this adjustment of two souls
together — I must repeat that the happiness of all human relations depends on
their spiritual interpretation — it is made first by the absolute adjustment of
one to the other and then later on of both to the children. I like that phrase
of Edward Everett Hale's, when, his own children growing up, he wanted some
boys to grow up in his home, "We will try to make them enjoy their fives." Now,
servitude is inconsistent with enjoyment. If you want to see how a poor home
may be happy, read Emerson's essay on the Domestic Life, that splendid passage
in which he makes a transcription of his own home as a boy, after bis father's
death, — poor, studious, pinched, but happy. Do you remember how he said he
read his Latin at the top of the house, wrapped from the cold in a woollen
coat, and how the page ever after was associated with a "woollen smell"? In a
happy home there must be absolute justice. It should begin even before there is
a home, in the conviction that there is one rule of morals for man and woman. I
know what some doctors, and scientific people, and psychologists say—but most
psychology has no more relation to human life as it is than an incubator has to
a hen — and I ask, is it possible that a man shall be at his best as the

husband of a good woman, who has not kept himself at his best until he came to
be her husband? I am saying that in face of the dreadful tragedies of life. It
is to be borne in mind that the sanctities of life depend, before the home
begins, on an absolute law of morals for the man and the woman. I know it is
said that men are sobered by responsibility. I have known such instances; but
the subject with which I am dealing is human happiness, and I say that human
happiness depends very largely on what you can show to the people you love best
of your whole nature when they have the right to see its depths. If you have
pictures that you must turn face to the wall, or some room into which the rest
of the household may not enter, it may be your misfortune, but it is a fleck
upon your happiness. Absolute justice then! I never could understand why a
woman, just because she marries a man, should be his slave. She has her own
soul, and it is so different from a man's that he ought to spend his days
finding out what it is. It is a subject of study that he will not get through
with if he lives to be eighty. And why should there not be absolute justice
between them? Why should a woman, for instance, not share his means, so that
she should not have to ask for every dollar she spends? Why should she not be
allowed to serve her own tastes? Why should she not delight in music if he
knows no delight in it? She may have no eye for color or form, why should he
therefore be debarred from having pictures?

But more important still: The people who live together must meet in something
higher than either of them. I do not say it need be religion, though I think
that is the highest, and something that you cannot miss without losing the full
sphere of your nature. There are more homes the happiness and daily comfort of
which are affected by their having ceased to pray than are conscious of the
fact. So long as religion is a part of human nature, you have to attend to it
or suffer loss. Just as well say you should not cultivate your memory or trust
your judgment as that you may neglect your religion. Religion is an essential
faculty of human nature, and demands that it shall have its rights. But,
religion aside, people who are bound to grow old, if they live long enough
together, must change. The curve of their beauty will relax, and the staff of
their strength will be broken. He has told all his stories, and she has played
all her little devices of art and charm; and if they are not to grow tired of
one another, they must meet in something that is higher than either of them, as
a source of supply. I would say, though you might not agree with me, that it is
very important that no day go by, considered perfect or finished, in which
these two people could not kneel before God together in prayer and speak to the
source of their life about what their life demands. I do not mean that
necessarily they should be seen together by their children kneeling beside the
bed, though it might be well; the children will believe in prayer whose parents
pray, and the enthusiasm of the adult mind is contagious to the young. I should
say, though I do not ask you to take it as a dogmatic statement, that the day
is best ended that has ended in the presence of the great God by hearts that
are near and dear to one another. It is a relation of souls, mark you, that we
are considering, not mere juxtaposition of circumstances, and it behooves souls
to know the way to some common ground of meeting and source of supply, some
great purpose, some great imagination, some engrossing passion of the soul. Why
is it that you were patient with one another after the child came? Because the
child was something outside yourselves, higher than yourselves, something to
care for, to think for, to save for, to labor for. If human life is not to grow
stale, if we are not to weary of one another, we must meet in something higher
than either of us. And it is a law of the human mind that will have a
sanctifying influence on the home. The best place on earth, the sacredest place
on earth, is a wellconducted home. That is a reason why we hold this faith that
we do hold, believe that Jesus of Nazareth was born as children are born in
poor people's homes the world over. If he were a miracle, he would not know
those laws of life; if he were a phenomenon never to be repeated, his story
would not need to be repeated, for it would not apply to our human life. He was
the child of Joseph and Mary. That woman knew what she was saying when, in the
story in John's gospel, they found him in God's House feeling his way to his
great task, and she spoke to him and said, "Why hast thou dealt with us thus?
Thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing." It is the great mission of the
human heart to give itself away to another human heart, and they two together
in some aspect of our varied life, but most normally in the home, are to strike
out the secret of God's love in the soul of man, and to build the new
conditions of the higher life for the home.

You wonder why I have said nothing about marriage and divorce, and whether
divorce is proper. I would rather not talk about the thing that mars my theme;
I would rather not go into the tragedy that offsets it. Why should I, in
speaking of the paradise in which God has set man and woman, be betrayed into
speaking of the desert into which they go out, driven of their sin? The
simplest, sweetest, wholesomest way, the recital that never has been written,
but that every soul knows by heart, of the place sacredest on earth, has been
my theme, and I say once more, with all conviction, that upon the conditions of
that place, the place we call Home, depends the happiness of life for human
souls constituted as we are.

[merged small][ocr errors]

THE WAY OF FREEDOM

HAPPINESS BY LIBERTY

HAPPINESS and freedom belong together. No slave can be essentially happy; he
may be without care; it is quite certain, for instance, that the negro
population of the United States before the Civil War had less care than they
have had since, and were less care to everybody else, but that they were not
happy in any essential meaning of the word is to be seen when you recall their
condition when they found themselves free; they discovered they were unfit to
be made happy on their own terms; and he who is happy on the terms of another's
mind is not happy in his own right. Essential happiness requires revolution of
the moral being around a centre that is identical with the centre of human
gravitation; and as surely as the mind is not centred and does not coincide in
its interests with the interests of the world, you get what happens in any
machinery improperly centred, you get friction, undue heat, retarded motion,
and all the other things that show the machinery is not properly adjusted. It
is a law of the development of the human race that its happiness is served by
development, devotion, upon its highest terms. To illustrate this law: when you
come to the ascending series called animal, you find man at the highest point
of the series. Everything after man arrived is interpreted in terms of man,
everything else is subordinate, contributory, and unimportant, in comparison
with the service of the world in terms of man. When you come to man, and he
begins to climb up, through the endless series that marks his progression, the
last term for him is mind. Mind, as applied to man, acquires a new meaning in
the animal world. In the ascending series called man, mind is the last term,
and all things are interpreted in terms of mind; but the mind itself is an
ascending series, and the final term in that is called the moral sense, and
everything else is interpreted in terms of morals. The universe is moral to its

centre. All the terms being moral, the bond between them must be moral. The
moral sense takes the emphasis. Thus, when you speak of freedom, you are not
dealing simply with one kind of thing. There is a freedom that has its range
and area in the animal; the freedom that the horse desires when it resists the
breaking it in to harness, the freedom that is in the blood of the wild beast
that would rather starve than be fed in a cage. There is a physical freedom
that has no moral value whatever, the feeling that dictates to the hermit
spider that he shall go into the ground and shut the trapdoor after him, so
that nobody shall go in. It is purely an animal instinct, the instinct that
lies at the base of all revolutions which, if they do not rise above it, are
simply the first chapter of anarchy; and all serious people, who are reading
the daily papers just now, are more concerned about the developments in Russia
in terms of rebellion than they dare express to themselves, because they see
the normal instinct on the lowest plane of its development reaching out to a
higher plane, and unorganized to that end. So the instinct for freedom, unless
it becomes

ideal, shall never become a fact that brings progress to the race. One has to
ascend above the plane of animal rebellion to attain this. Therefore said
Jesus, the Master of the Art of Living, "If the son shall make you free, then
ye shall be free indeed." He meant that the filial relationship between God and
his children is the ground of the only freedom that could be permanent. So any
freedom that is worth considering as an element in happiness must be on the
highest plane that the human creature knows. There is a freedom of vice. But we
do not allow it to be free in organized society. There is no question but it is
better for the progress of the race that men shall make their mistakes on terms
of their own devising, and that they shall find the easy descent along the
slopes of crime and ignominy and wrong rather than be forcibly held permanently
by any power on the crest above the descent. All police arrangements are a
testimony that we are not yet free in any fine way, and that freedom sought on
the lower lines is a menace to the higher freedom. The illustrations are not
far to seek. Take any community, take any family, take any boy. Impose on the
boy external restrictions, keep him in a moral strait-jacket, bind him hand and
foot with regulations, leave him to think his rebellions — and then release him
and see what he will do. We all know what he will do; we know perfectly well he
will find the angle of reaction equal to the angle of repression, that the
pendulum of his agitated mind will swing as far one way as the other. All
police restraint, all repression from without, being removed, the fact appears
at once that no education has taken place, no development has occurred. True
freedom must be upon the highest planes. What are the highest planes? First of
all, the spiritual life. We know how little congenial any discussion of the
spiritual nature of man is to this time. We understand it almost not at all. We
understand good morals, we know what prosperity means — we are so prosperous
just now that it is almost impossible to get any one to do a bit of painstaking
everyday work — we understand everything better than that "man has a body, but
man is a spirit," and that he has come through the procession of immemorial
creation to have a human soul. All nature has been working through endless ages
to make a human soul. The first element of freedom which commands attention is
that which brings a soul to possession of itself. That brings the spiritual
nature to the front. I do not know whether this impresses other people as it
does the minister of religion. There are people that think the ministry is
simply a profession; it is far from this, it is an agony of solicitude to the
man who finds people, in the main, rightminded, well-placed, cultivated along
certain lines of their nature, but when he seeks the spiritual nature in them,
the hatred of sin — of the sin that is not inconvenient and that does not bring
reprobation socially, even the sins that are a dalliance in the mind and leave
a stain of earth on the soul — when you look for this, and do not find it, you
feel that these people, for the purposes of the freedom of men in the highest
terms, have lived in vain. And yet, there is no poetry in the world but has
been made under the inspiration of the human soul, no music except what the
human soul discourses. You can put it together mechanically, and play it by
mechanical rules, but the thing that moves you is something deeper. You talk of
temperament — what is temperament? Is it a nice adjustment of nerves, or an
accident of creation? It is that which makes the song move you, the thing that
is capable of all the discoveries of the spiritual life; it is not an excuse
for gravitation toward wrong. No man is free who still has a sneaking desire to
sin as nearly as he can without being found out. The freedom of the human soul
is the freedom that gives itself to God. It is beyond doubt that unless we
believe we belong to God utterly, from centre to circumference of our being, in
every motion of the mind and every action of life, we are not living the life
of freedom on the highest plane. Intellectual revolt is only a means to that
end. Give yourselves away to God if you would be free of sin. He who declared,
"I and the Father are one," said also, "My joy I give unto you."

The second element is the necessity of freedom to mental integrity. "There are
two sorts of people in the world," says President Eliot, "the imitators and the
creators. And the purpose of education is to transfer people from the class of
the imitators to the class of the creators." Now the imitation comes up from
our long simian ancestry. Read Kipling's jungle story of the "banderlog," the
great tribe, first cousins of our remote ancestry, who cannot remember what
they were going to do even while they start to do it. That is the imitative
faculty in its beginnings; no power of application.no focus of the mind, but
continual motion, incessant agitation and transition from place to place. The
imitators make up the great body of the human race, people who repeat after
others the thing that has been said, while it conveys to their own inner sense
no meaning. The free spirits are the creators, the people who have initiative,
who know that "two and two sometimes make five," who know, as Browning says,
that when the hand is placed upon the keys to produce a chord, not a new note,
"but a star," shines in the sound. They will understand that the elements are
given them to combine in infinite variety. It is fundamental to the progress of
the race. Twenty-six letters of the alphabet, and all literature from the
infinite combinations of them. This little range of notes in the scale,

[ocr errors][merged small]

and all music as the result. Just certain motions of the hand of the painter or
the sculptor, and all art the result of the initiative of him who by his mental
freedom can wield the hand. It is said that one of the Italian painters painted
his angels, prostrate on his knees, and we still stand in gentle wonder before
his gold background and the luminous face against it, but the painter of to-day
knows he must do more than that; he cannot simply work in his studio on his
knees, he must work on the material of human life, wherever he finds the
achievement of human life by the initiative of the free mind. That is the
difference between a man who creates and a man who copies. I saw a man in
Antwerp Cathedral copying the "Descent from the Cross," who told me he had
copied that picture one hundred and fifty times. He had copied it, and copied
it, until his copy was as accurate as a photograph and as dead as the Christ in
the painting, and when he had done, somebody would buy his work perhaps, but
the man who knew, and had stood worshipping before that moving picture, would
feel the difference between the work of the hand that had fol

lowed the lines, and that of the soul that had guided the hand in the
beginning. AH the world is divided into imitators and creators, and the
business of education is to pass people over from the first class into the
second, and human initiative, \ the right to do even a foolish thing if it is
your own, is essential to the integrity of the intellect. The people who go and
repeat a creed or a liturgy, or a form of faith, or some genuflection, or keep
time, or march to music, are doing well, but it is no part of the ultimate
freedom of the human soul; the liturgy is not effective until you shall believe
it with a difference, because you are a different man in a different age.
Nature has decreed that this is so, since it has been ascertained that no
tradition maintains its integrity for a hundred years. So the freedom of the
mind is essential to its right action. People go to a minister of religion with
the most crude questions that were ever heard, but the man of experience is not
embarrassed. Let the most foolish questions be asked; you know that the freedom
to inquire, to doubt, to question, is leading to happiness, for though the
discoverer may be lost, the land he discovers becomes the heritage of the
future; the most blundering pioneer fells the forest that a field of grain may
grow there. The field is reaped that men and women may have bread, the bread is
eaten that men in healthy bodies may have sane minds, and the last achievement
of these minds is the discovery of their sovereign right in God.

One step further. Freedom as an element of happiness is essential to the
integrity of society. Autocracy cannot last. Absolute monarchy is feeble
exactly in the ratio of its continuance. The social state is made up of free
men. Mark how singularly instinctive was the action of the Pilgrims and
Puritans together. They had a theory of the total depravity of man, that man
"had fallen from original righteousness," and when they had worked it out into
a system which even the Pilgrims were not free from holding, and which the
Puritans held on to with both hands, they provided two things, a church without
a creed, that people might have freedom of worship, and universal education,
which, if human nature were totally depraved, was surely a very great risk to
take. A church without a creed, that the soul might have initiative, and
universal education that society might be formed on terms of equality. Now let
me say a word which applies to our present state. We feel a panic come over us,
if we are not well instructed, when a new theory of government or of economics
or of ethics is proposed. But all these things are a feeling after the ideal
state. Why should we be alarmed? It is simply one more mind that has discovered
that man was meant not to be driven in harness but to go willingly toward a
good end. It is the effort of the human mind to reconstruct society on terms of
happiness, though it is a mistake to suppose that when you have changed
conditions or altered a law, you have changed the human mind. But the mistake
is no greater than that of supposing that there must never be any change or
deviation from the ways of the fathers. The happiness of the whole depends on
the freedom of the individual; so, better any mistake than that men should not
have the freedom even to make mistakes.

And finally, freedom as a means to happiness is the guarantee of nobility of
nature. I must have the right to make my dreams come true. I shall not dream
and wake to drudgery or staleness or any of the common ways of life; I must
have the right to make my dreams come true. That is what the human mind means
when it claims happiness in terms of freedom. No nobility is possible except
the absolute liberty of the individual is granted. You say there is no such
thing as absolute liberty for the individual. Yes; there is the liberty of the
individual to follow the lines of his own development, conscious of the next
man to whom he owes the best service he can give. The world was never made
richer as a whole by a community of slaves; it is only permanently enriched by
the cooperation of free men.

THE WAY TO THE HEIGHTS

THE VISION AND THE DREAM

THE WAY TO THE HEIGHTS

THE VISION AND THE DREAM

WHEN Paul declared to Rome's Imperial Representative, "I was not disobedient to
the heavenly vision," he challenged enthroned Materialism to believe in the
Ideal. But even the most enthusiastic idealist must inquire the difference
between the "vision " and the "dream," and it will be observed that this
chapter has not for its title "Visions and Dreams"; this is not an exhibit of
any form of psychic phenomena. It is The Vision and The Dream that we are to
consider; and to differentiate between the two is of the utmost importance. We
dream when we are "not all there "; whether we sleep or wake we dream when we
are not all there — when we are not focussed to action. But the Vision may be
the very superlative of energy. The dream belongs normally to the sleeping
time, when the eye is shut and when sleep is not complete; those who sleep best
dream least, but the Vision is for waking hours. Next day your dream may become
true, or the day after, or a year after; but the vision is true now. To the
expectant soul it is constructed out of the soul's own material; it is not a
sign, as the dream is, of an irregularly acting mechanism, but of focussed
power in the human soul. I see the vision when all the powers of my nature are
brought to focus and life appears in perspective. So, very properly, in the
announcement of the good time that was coming, one of the prophets of the Old
Testament — Malachi — said that good time should be marked by two
peculiarities: "Your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream
dreams." It is the statement of the review of experience that delights in
looking back on good achievements and good history, and of the looking out from
the walls of youth for the coming time; the young men shall see visions and be
prophetic, whilst the old men shall dream dreams and be reminiscent. So, there
is a radical difference between the vision and the dream, and the problem of
life

from start to finish is to wake people from their dreams and to inspire them to
see visions. "Open thou mine eyes," said the Psalmist, "that I may behold
wondrous things out of thy law." The experience of the Apostle Paul, which he
calls "the heavenly vision" was an experience that came to him at midday, when
his every energy was alert, and all the nether powers of hate exposed and
active, as he was "breathing out threatenings and slaughter" against the
believers in the Christ; he was on the way to his evil work when the vision
came, and it is a singular thing that it is quite possible for a man on the way
to something evil, if he be altogether alert, to have a vision of something
good which shall arrest him and rally him to something better; that is much
more likely to happen than that the dreamer in some cool and shady place in
life shall see anything, either of good or of evil. It is "the ungirt loin and
the unlit lamp," Browning says, that is to be charged upon these ineffectual
souls. In the "Statue and the Bust," the poet seems, to the careless reader, to
be supporting evil, because at least evil that may be applauded is not
stagnant; but they read him carelessly who have not discovered that, in his
belief, the one incurable, hopeless condition, is not the peace that reflects
the sun, but the stagnation that gathers its scum of poison and of death.

What then shall we say for the vision, since nothing much is to be said for the
dream, except that those who are in the quiet of age may review the past and
think how God has led them to that hour; — for if God has not led them, it will
not be dreams they will have to visit them, but the convulsion of a distress
too great to be relieved. What shall be said for the vision?

In the first place, it comes to the expectant soul. May I once again remind you
how long it has taken to make the human soul. I revert to this again and again,
because I believe as I believe in God that the one business nature has had from
immemorial time has been the building of the human soul. You cannot imagine any
human creature the better for another arm or another eye. You cannot imagine
any change in the perfection of nature's forms that would improve their
symmetry or enlarge their function, or emphasize their grace. But you cannot
cease to imagine what will happen to the human soul under the teaching of
nature and of opportunity if it be plastic to that hand. Nature has been
through immemorial aeons building the human soul. It is therefore only natural
that when it has come to consciousness, when it has realized itself, that it
should "know its noble from its ignoble hours "; when it takes account of its
functions and powers, when it realizes what it means in a world moral to the
centre, it should be expectant and outlooking. Its path is forward, its Eden
lies beyond; and no soul instructed believes that man began with perfection and
fell into decay. "The Ascent of Man," is the new challenge of man's ascending.
The Apostle John says, "Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not
yet appear what we shall be." That is, having such a start as that, we may go
anywhere, to any length — " now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet
appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be
like him, for we shall see him as he is." This is the declaration of the
expectant soul. Jesus said to his disciples: "These things have I spoken unto
you that my joy might be in you, and that your joy might be full. My peace I
leave with you, my peace I give unto you, not as the world giveth, give I unto
you. . . . Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid." Think of
that command issuing from the undisturbed centre of his divine enlightenment
and peace. And so through all the scripture the promise is to the expectant
soul. The writer of the Epistle to the Hebrews says: "Faith is the substance of
things hoped for" — the substantia that underlies all things that are — "Faith
is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen." I like,
too, the definition of one of our contemporaries, who says: "Faith is the
conviction that there is in the universe something that corresponds to my
best." The man who has that conviction goes to seek this "best." It is the
belief from the out-cropping that the vein of gold is there that leads a man to
camp beside that crevasse on the side of the mountain, and live there for years
in searching expectancy. "There is something in the universe that corresponds
to my best;" the expectant soul reads the promise of its vision in the records
of its own beginnings and progress. Now you see at once, there is no vision for
the soul that has no history. If you have just been happening from day to day,
just dropping along as many people walk, in a way that is not exercise but
merely a slow progression without evident intention, if you have just happened
along, you will see no vision and have had no history; for this reason it is
better to have had a history of unremitting sorrow than to have lived a
superficial life. That which makes the soul is the thing that turns to vision
before the eye, and out of the records that were illumined when we wrote them,
and that, when we turn to them now, we find blotted with our tears, or the
records that were written with our blood, the records that seemed the very
prose of tragedy as we wrote them, and that have turned to poetry now, we make
our visions. The vision comes to the expectant soul, and the soul has the right
to be expectant; for human nature has been preparing its powers through
immemorial periods. We are not of yesterday, and we shall not cease to-morrow.
More than this, the vision is made up of what we have accumulated, not only of
experience as the

basis of expectancy, but of what we have gained of treasured memories. It would
be difficult to estimate how much of our unhappiness comes from what we
remember; so much, that one of the great arts of life is to learn to forget.
The thing that is part of you you will never forget, it is " bone of your bone
and flesh of your flesh," its stain has flowed down the channels of your blood;
but the injuries done to you, the mistakes you have made that can never be
corrected, the incurable blunders that you did not know enough to avoid, all
these may well be forgotten; let them leap together into the chasm that
threatens your peace, and see it close over them. That does not mean that we
are to become superficial by forgetting the real things. You cannot forget a
scar. But no scar is ever left where the true flesh has not been pierced;
superficial abrasions are healed over and forgotten; and it ought not to be
possible for any external thing that is not of the soul, any agony in your life
that is not of the soul, to wound you enough to leave a scar. Scars come after
long bleeding from wounds that went deep, and for the most part they are the
wounds inflicted by our own hands. So do you wonder that I say it would be
difficult to estimate the unhappiness that comes from the things we remember?
One business of our earlier life, in fact one of its chief occupations, should
be to hang the walls of the mind with pictures that shall delight us when we
are old; not with pictures that we shall have to turn with their faces to the
wall to hide from our dim eyes as the evening of life draws near. When I hear
the vulgar speech of young men, when I see the frivolous employment of many
young people, see good stuff going to waste for want of thought, I cannot help
grieving for what shall later hang on the walls of their minds. It is an awful
thing to be old and live in a prison hung with pictures we hate, instead of
dwelling in a palace filled with visions of radiant remembrance; that is a
tragic destiny; and they are making it now who are not husbanding, garnering,
saving up with almost the avarice of fear lest they be left desolate, the
precious things they shall be glad to remember when they are old. If I saw a
youth struggling with the question of sin, I should say to him: "Fill your mind
with such thoughts of goodness as shall make sin seem foreign to you, with such
apprehension of human relationships as shall, with the Roman poet, lead you to
say 'Nothing that is human is alien to me,' and make all the wall space of the
chambers of your mind shine with pleasant things in colors that will stay, dyed
through and through; let the tapestries be not merely the painting of
evanescent colors that the first rush of tears will wash away;" and I should
hope that when this youth came to be forty, the one thing he would remember of
me would be that I made him collect a gallery of pleasant memories. So, I say,
our happiness depends largely upon what we remember in this vision of the soul.

The vision depends greatly upon the energy of our nature. Of course there are
temperaments that have no energy, but I do not think they are very common;
there are very few people that are really born tired. Of course, the great
middle range of society is loaded down with the burdens that they have acquired
from the two useless classes in the world, the pauper class and the leisure
class. Their burdens have fallen on the rest of us. But we would rather carry
them than belong to either class. There is a "menace in privilege," but it is
not muchfelt by the industrious. The discontent and social unrest of our day is
not felt for the most part by those who know that they have unlimited "day's
work" in them. A man who realizes that he has an unexhausted brain and a sound
body knows he cannot be driven into a corner in this good land. The corners are
filled with people that have slunk into them, and there is the more room in the
middle of the arena for those who fight the battle of life. So I say our
visions are born of our energy, and the energy need not be enclosed in either
herculean frames or tireless physical bodies. The energy of the mind is the
thing essential — I am using the word most familiar to the scientific world —
there is "one energy and all forces are modes of its manifestation"; this is an
axiom of the modern scientific man. So our energy is not simply the combustion
of the blood that shows in molecular activity; it is not the tense nerve that,
stretch it as you may, still sings responsive; but the energy of the soul of
one who thinks that things are worth while. If I thought I were of yesterday
and should not be to-morrow, I do not know what the programme of the day would
be, but it would not be this that I am doing, for things would have ceased to
be worth while. I marvel when I am *"* in the woods that the ephemera think it
good to live their little day; they were hatched by the sun of the morning, and
they will die in the rain of the night; but they are as busy as though they
meant something to somebody besides themselves, and they are a lesson to us,
since we are not ephemera, not of a day but "comrades of the immortals," that
we should act as though things were worth while. Am I spent to-day? I shall
rest to-morrow. "To-morrow is another day." If I made a mistake with good
material that I would work into some object of beauty in my apprenticeship and
task of life, I will remember that the material was good, the fault was in my
awkward working; I shall have learned by failure, and tomorrow I shall work it
over again to better ends; and the day shall come sometime when I shall go to
the master of my guild and say, Behold my "experience" of all these years in
which I have

THE END OF THE WAY

BLESSEDNESS AND PEACE
|HE conclusion seems inevitable that es-

sential happiness is not an accident

either of circumstances or of temperament. Some people indeed are happier than
others, because some have better-regulated physical condition or are born of
clearer-minded and healthier ancestry. It is a fine thing to have clean blood;
it is a fine thing to have the functions of life so automatic that they do not
report their presence by their derangement; it is also well, though not so
well, that human beings should be so placed in life that they do not have to
try too hard to be happy. I suppose that the motive in wishing to be
comfortable is that you may not have to think about it. Whatever lifts human
life away from the struggle of which it is more or less constantly aware,
leaves it free for the better life. That is the reason automatic trades often
produce philosophers; the old-style cobbler furnished the village philosophy,
and was always ready to settle the affairs of the universe. It is more or less
true of all conditions of life that are free from worry; the only reason for
being free from worry is that you may grow, and rejoice in your growth.

[graphic]

But happiness does not after all depend on that; it is not, as I have said, an
accident either of temperament or of circumstance. Happiness, no matter in what
measure it is realized, is an obligation laid upon every human being. It is not
simply my privilege to be happy if I am allowed to be, but it is my duty if I
can possibly achieve it. It is certainly true that the integrity of intellect
depends upon it, that the lubrication of all life's machinery depends upon it.
The problem is to get a life-machine that will do the work it is destined to
do; and there is no greater waste than to spend most of your capital on
repairs, so that you have nothing left for production. Happiness is a duty. Let
us recall the statement of Wordsworth who attributed to Coleridge the "most
stupendous intellect he had ever encountered" yet declared that Coleridge was
not able to understand his poetry fully, "because he was not happy enough."
From that penetrating judgment of one poet concerning another grew this little
book upon the duty of happiness, which has its first justification in the
search for happiness. It is the fundamental fact that underlies all other
tendencies in the human mind, regnant over every , phase of human life. The
search for happiness gnaws like a hunger, parches like a thirst, moves like a
current of the blood, beats with the automatic action of the heart, stirs in
the cells of the brain, is the constant "imperial pushing propensity" of every
human life; and so it ought to be. And when you have said for religion its
finest thing, you must say that the business of religion is to add to the zest
of life. Serious people have no interest in religion as a process of insurance,
or as a pledge of salvation; no interest in it except that it shall justify
itself as spiritually efficient in one human soul so that it may realize itself
in the moral relation of that soul to other souls. It must add to the zest of
life, so that our benevolences shall not be like broken victuals at

the gate, but be the overflow of our own brimming cup, in which we shall "take
the cup of salvation and pay our vows " to God as we hand it to some other
thirsting child of God.

We have seen that the ancient methods were not sufficient; the method of the
Cynic was to exclude the joys of life in the interest of the integrity of life,
as though a fragment of life would satisfy the demand of a whole man. The Cynic
has never commended himself to the human mind — certainly not the modern cynic,
the man who has suffered a hemorrhage of the emotions and has had his veins
filled with water. The ancient Cynic, who has his modern representative in the
ascetic, the monk, the nun, dedicated to God, has never commended himself to
the normal man; for his attempt at happiness is incomplete. The Stoic failed
also; to him God was central to all things, God was not remote; let the Hymn of
Cleanthes to Zeus be the statement of the best Stoic thought when the Stoic was
at his best, and he is at his best always who sincerely is in the rapt moments
of worship. But he was not complete. Then there was the way of the Epicurean,
not the modern epicurean,

who is a poor thing, who, as late as Paul's time, said, "Let us eat and drink
for to-morrow we die." No. Epicurus was of a different temper. The Epicurean of
the ancient type divided life into three classes of wants: the wants that were
natural and inevitable, the wants that were natural and not inevitable, the
wants that were superficial. Those that were natural and inevitable he must
provide for; those that were natural and not inevitable he might select from;
those that were superficial he must ignore. His one struggle in life was to
rule his condition by this eclectic process in the attempt to attain
imperturbability. Zmperturbability was his watchword. The unperturbed person
may be himself in some degree happy, in so far as he is not perturbed; but who
else can be happy with him? His calm becomes a reproach, and his
self-sufficiency a signal for attack. No. Imperturbability is the condition of
a bear that is hibernating in winter. He is not even a bear at his best, for
the woods do not know him, and the bees do not fear him, and the raspberries
are not waiting for him; he is sleeping in his hole. The older epicureanism is
as little to be desired as the modern; though the Epicurean of old was more
decent. The modern epicurean cannot maintain his decency, his way is simply the
way of pleasure. And it must be repeated, once more, that no pleasure, no
instinct, no intention, followed for its own sake, can last. It must be
followed for a motive higher than itself to an end more noble than itself, and
from this motive and end it must record itself for the happiness of life. It
has been insisted also that happiness is the way of freedom, for only the man
who can grow can be happy. One is little instructed in the philosophy of
childhood who does not know that the child is unfolding as the flowers do, and
these blossoms on the tree of life must have air and light that they may come
to fruit when the blossom time is done. It is possible to order behavior, to
regulate deportment, to discipline life, to march to music, and to keep step,
but it is not possible to be happy by repression. And for that reason, from the
child to whom the one tiresome word is "don't," to the adult who falls under
the incurable vice of a nagging associate, there is no happiness, no chance to
grow; repression is an acid that eats into the fair flesh of our joy. And the
great business in life is to let those about us have the liberty, and to claim
for ourselves the right, to go wrong if love will allow, and to recover from
the wrong if love can command; there is no repressive process that can be a
substitute for love.

The way of worship has also been considered. We are not simply human beings,
but human souls. That the difference between us is not the difference of our
resemblance and its reverse; that we are not known among those who are our
friends as really by the difference of our faces and manner as by the
difference of our souls. Consider how much happier you will be when you think
of yourselves as children of the living God, entitled to the life that is in
Him. We have rights in God. They are our natural rights by virtue of the fact
that we are human souls. We cannot be denied them, we are " bound up in the
bundle of life " with Him. I know of no way in which the Eternal can be rid of
me. And we claim our rights in God as human souls — not simply as merchants, as
masters, as laborers, as citizens, or servants, as fathers or mothers, or
children, these are all the accidents of life; the one normal term in life is
the children of the living God. Then it would seem inevitable, if this be true,
that happiness must be by way of worship, in which speculation is forgotten and
petition unregarded, and divine union reaches heaven and returns, as clouds
come back in the little streams that feed the sea. And if you do not love to
speak to God, if you feel that you are not on good terms with your Heavenly
Father, it behooves you to know that you have laid an embargo upon that source
of happiness that belongs to the child that is happy in its home with those who
love it.

And so we were brought to consider the sacredest place in the world, the home, 
and there also we laid the stress upon the reality of the human soul.
Everything else is incidental; all homefailures are by virtue of the denial of
that. Divorce is due to spiritual failure. The holy sacrament of two hearts
that are in spiritual affinity makes it impossible that they shall turn from
that union of the soul as long as the spiritual relation remains. Age becomes
beautiful in that aspect, and weakness only an incentive to tender service, and
where the delights of life fail and fade, the fidelities of life are magnified
and regnant, and the sweet amenities that were for joy's sake become gentle
ministries that carry in their hands the secret of happiness. This is the sum
of the whole matter, We ought to be happy. How can we bring this about?

The first way to bring it about is not to let your centre of gravity be
transferred. Why should I shift my centre of gravity into another mind, into
some paltry circumstance, into my bank account, into my business enterprises,
into my pleasures that are only half pleasures because I can only half enjoy
them, exhausted as the busy man is when he goes to them. It should be said to
men of affairs, with all seriousness, that if they are unhappy because they are
too busy, their first business after making this discovery is to be less busy,
that they may be happy. That does not apply to the responsibilities we take for
others but to the endeavor we make for ourselves. It is quite possible to be
overwhelmed with care for others, but did any

woman ever feel she was not happy because her child must be watched day and
night when it was sick; she was grieved and hurt and in an agony with the great
motherhood of the world, but she was not unhappy. And if the child lived, that
was all she asked, that was her happiness; bearing it, nursing it, caring for
it if it only may be part of the world's life, that is joy; and so in the work
for others that we must assume if we be unselfish, directorship that directs,
and responsibility that is a daily thought, not responsibility, delegated
without any sufficient accounting for the trusteeship that the trustee has
evaded — in all this one may be happy that the world's work is going on. The
centre of gravity remains within the soul of such a man; he is at equipoise
between the centrifugal forces of his endeavor and the centripetal forces of
his conscience. Do not give away your centre of gravity. If I am forever
running after my evading responsibilities, if I have pawned my days, loaned my
endeavor, given my name, forfeited my possession in the only thing a man may
take, my good repute, have put all these in the keeping of others, how can I be
happy? Then, the first requisite upon the way to happiness is not to lose one's
own centre of gravity.

Besides this, do not undertake more than you can accomplish. The unhappiness of
life lies in the fret of it; not in its work, but in its worry. Good, strong,
well-ordered work never killed a man; but the worry of it, the loading up of an
hour with two hours' work, the loading up of an evening with too many
engagements, being avaricious of pleasure and greedy of delight, will make us
unhappy. Joy ceases to be joy when it is not conveniently handled and easily
carried. That is the reason when we go out into nature and look into the sky
and listen to the blessed birds, they seem to be so happy in their business;
the hedge-sparrow that sits on the wall and sings to his mate upon her nest, so
that the very air, the air of June, seems to be palpitating with his love, is
the very spirit of joy. You go out to a lake in the Adirondacks, and you watch
two loons get up and circle, up and up until they find their direction and then
bear away like ships in full sail, with the ease of doing what they can do so
well; part of the happiness of life comes in the ease of every faculty, letting
one's self go upon every task, and being in full possession of every power;
which is a very different thing from being in full eruption of the nerves.

How shall we be happy? Most of all in that generous attitude towards others
that leaves us no arrears of regard. Our happiness is drawn out of the mind
within. Nobody can make you) 7 happy. Anybody may make you glad; but glad-j ) 
ness is like daylight, it is gone when the night falls. The real secret of
happiness that culminates in blessedness is like a great quiet that rests
between two friends who do not have to speak because they understand one
another. That sublime tranquillity, that "wise passiveness," as Wordsworth
calls it, while we climb the steps of light by a way practicable to the
heights, comes most of all by living in a fine, genial, sweet, wholesome
goodwill. Recall what was earlier said of the three classes into which people
are divided in the matter of doing good — those who do good because they must,
to whom duty is imperative and conscience a terror, who have perhaps inherited
the Puritan

conscience without any infusion of the Huguenot conscience, the first cast in
steel, the other iridescent and luminous and sweet; next those who do good
expecting, having done it, that there shall be some return, at least of
appreciation; and last, those who do good for the good that is in it — for the
joy there is in it. The Master whom we so often call the "Man of Sorrows and
Acquainted with Grief" was the happiest man that ever came to make a day of
light in the world, — the "Sun of Righteousness." His history was summed up in
the fine phrase: he "went about doing good, for God was with him." Our
happiness depends largely upon such an interpretation of life. Let us then be
rid of our anxieties about ourselves; not be too insistent upon ourselves. We
are far less important even to ourselves than we imagine. We are part of a
perfectly ordered world. Let us not even be weary of ourselves; but live the
wholesome, natural, simple life as far as, in these complicated times, we can.
And to our feet shall

Open THE WAT TO HAPPINESS !" GREAT PEACE HAVE THEY WHO LOVE THY LAW AND NOTHING
SHALL CAUSE THEM TO STUMBLE!"

[graphic]

THE STEPS OF LIFE

Further Essays on Happiness

By Carl Hilty, Professor of Constitutional Law in the University of Bern,
Switzerland

Translated by the Rev. Melvin Brandon, with an Introduction by Dr. Francis Q. 
Peabody, of Harvard University

Cloth 12mo $1.25 net

Professor Hilty's directions for finding the Road to Happiness are weighted
with the authority of a rare knowledge of life, and are full of suggestion for
all who are groping for light on such fundamental facts as sin and sorrow; the
divine comfort; the power to understand others; the elements of true culture;
the supremacy of goodness; the bases of hope in the life beyond; the growth of
human character. It is difficult to see how any one can rise from his books
without profit.

HAPPINESS

Translated by the Rev. Francis G. Peabody, Plummer Professor of Christian
Morals in Harvard University

Cloth 12mo $1.25 net

Professor Hilty's essays long ago took rank in Europe as classics in the sphere
of personal culture in ethics and religion.

Without haste, without fuss, he seems to see more deeply into the ordinary
experiences of human life than most men can. There is with all his insight a
simple gentleness and sympathy in his way of treating the deepest things of
life, the primal motives that stir the soul. He discusses the Art of Work, How
to Fight the Battles of Life, Good Habits, The Art of Having Time, Happiness,
The Meaning of Life.

President of Oberlin College

Rational Living

"An unusually valuable book on practical ethics . . . admirably adapted for
clubs and classes which wish to study ethical questions, and equally valuable
for all who wish the latest and clearest information on such subjects." — Amory
H. Bradford, First Congregational Church, Montclair, N.J. Cloth 12mo $1.25 net
(postage 12c.)

Personal and Ideal Elements in Education

"I am reading it with great profit. It is a magnificent utterance."—William F.
Anderson, Secretary Board of Education of the Methodist Episcopal Church.

Cloth 12mo $1.50 net (postage 11 c.)

Reconstruction in Theology

"Its pages represent what is nearly if not actually the highwater mark of skill
and success in blending a fearless yet discriminating progressiveness with a
loyal conservatism in theology." — The Congregationalism

Cloth 12mo $1.50

Theology and the Social Consciousness

"A valuable contribution to current discussion ... it is not scholastic; it is
not phrased in the technical language of the schools; the thoughtful layman
will readily understand it."— The Outlook.

Cloth Crown 8vo $1.25 net

By the Rev. HUGH BLACK
Author of "Friendship," "Work," etc.

The Practice of Self=Culture

Cloth 12mo $1.25 net

3

Plummer Professor of Christian Morals in Harvard University

Jesus Christ and the Christian Character

An examination of the teaching of fesus in its relation to some of the moral
problems of personal life.

"The lectures are full of power and present a study of Christian ethics which
is truly inspiring. "—Independent. Cloth 12mo $1.50 net (postage lie.)

Jesus Christ and the Social Question

An examination of the teaching of fesus in its relation to some problems of
modern social life.

"It is vital, searching, comprehensive. The Christian reader will find it an
illumination; the non-Christian, a revelation."—The Epworth Herald.

Cloth 12 mo $1.50

The Religion of an Educated Man

Religion as education—Christ's message to the scholar— knowledge and service.

"The lectures are a distinct contribution to a branch of literature of which we
stand in great need."—Boston Transcript.

Cloth 12mo $1.00 net (postage 7c.)

By NEWELL DWIGHT HILLIS
Pastor of Plymouth Church, Brooklyn

The Quest of Happiness

A study of victory over life's troubles.

"'The Quest of Happiness' is Dr. Hillis's very best book."—Amory H. Bradford,
Pastor of First Congregational Church, Montclair, N J.

Cloth, with colored page borders $1.50 net

[graphic]

RETURN TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED

LOAN DEPT.

This book is due on the last date stamped below, or
on the date to which renewed.
Renewed books are subject to immediate recall.

[merged small][merged small][merged small][merged small][ocr errors][merged
small]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[merged small][merged small][graphic]
